The hon. Member says that conditions are altogether different. Why?
It was only in March of this year that the Ministers of the Crown Act was introduced into this House, and conditions were not very different then. In that Measure there was a Clause which laid down that there need not be more than a certain number of principal members of the Government in the House of Lords. That surely was the occasion on which this House, if it thought fit, should have introduced an Amendment saying that certain Ministers  should also be Members of this House. I do not remember that the hon. and gallant Member or any other Member of the party opposite thought it necessary at that time to introduce such an Amendment. The Act as finally passed provides that out of 21 principal Members of the Government, not more than three need be Members of another place. At the present time, out of these 21, there are only five who are Members of the House of Lords. I quite understand the omission of this House to ask for any amendment of the Act in that respect, because, after all, a proportion of three out of 21 is not a proportion which could be said to do any injustice to this House.
The hon. and gallant Member took care to quote my hon. Friend below the Gangway. Now he tries to say that it has nothing to do with the question he has addressed to me or the  observations he has made. As regards the attack on my Noble Friend some day, perhaps, justice will be done to Him. It is not possible for the public to know everything that has gone on in the Air Ministry since my noble Friend took charge, but when it is realised, as it will be some day, with what speed and rapidity, and with what efficiency, he has built up a magnificent Air Force in this short space of time, unequalled in the world in the keenness and spirit of the men, and equipped with machines of a power and fighting force undreamed of before my noble Friend came into office, he will earn, and will receive, the gratitude of the country rather than the carping criticism of the hon. and gallant Gentleman.
