I quite agree that everybody should be given a free hearing in this House, and a fair hearing, but I cannot agree with you, Sir Dennis, with all respect, that we should make distinctions between one person and another [HON. MEMBERS: "Oh."] Yes, I  suggest that we are all on an equal footing in this House as Members, we all have the right of free speech, and we all have occasionally to submit to interjections, but I submit with great respect to you, that, while an important speech is being made we should all exercise the greatest restraint, this House should draw no distinctions between its Members.
I agree with the Prime Minister that the condition of the world is serious, and that everyone who speaks on these subjects must speak with a full sense of responsibility; but that does not mean, in my view, that there should be a lack of plain speaking, but that we ought to see the facts as they really are. I must say that I was profoundly disappointed with the speech of the Prime  Minister, because it seemed to me that he had misconceived the whole issue that lies before us. He suggested that there was being fought out in Spain, in the opinion of some people, a struggle between two sides, two rival systems. I do not think that is the issue that is facing us to-day. The world to-day is faced with a contest between two sides, and those two sides are whether the rule of law in international affairs shall prevail, or the rule of lawless force. That is the issue that faces us, and we must look at this Spanish struggle in its true perspective.
If I may say so without wishing to be personally offensive, that is the Kind of remark that the Gadarene swine might have: made to each other just before they fell into the sea. No one will deny that the situation on all hands is getting more serious. The Government have shown no belief that non-intervention is going to succeed. Lord Plymouth has shown no belief in it. The Government show no faith in it, and we say, "Where is this going to stop?" We are prepared to say that you must stop somewhere. Where will hon. Members below the Gangway opposite stop? Is there anything they will stand for? If their attitude means anything, it means that if anybody shakes his fist the Government must follow that policy, and if we suggest that the Government should stand firm, they say, "Oh, you want war." We think that the time has come when the situation in the world is so serious that we must call in the League, must take steps for the world to deal with it before it goes any further. We have had nearly a year now if these attempts, and things have got worse and worse. We ask for the calling of the League to deal with the Spanish situation, for the calling of the League, as the right hon. Member for Caithness (Sir A. Sinclair) said, to deal with the economic causes of war.
