When the House last met, we had a prolonged discussion on foreign affairs and we reviewed the circumstances which led up to the international crisis. I do not intend to repeat the arguments that were used then or to review again the past, nor indeed to enter into a general review of the international situation. I think it is for us now to consider the present and the future, but to keep the lessons of the past in our mind. I want to call attention to some of the consequences of the great defeat that has been sustained by France and Great Britain and, above all, by the cause of law and order and democratic government. I want to look not only at the political but at the economic aspects of what has happened in the last few months. To-morrow we are to discuss the proposal of the Government to ratify the Anglo-Italian Agreement. We shall have a full opportunity of stating our objections to the course proposed, and the Debate will raise very large questions of international policy, and particularly the vitally important question of Spain, and I shall not to-day in any way anticipate that Debate. On Thursday my friends intend to raise the question of the deplorable deficiencies in the provision for defence which the emergency brought into the open. I say "brought into the open"—not "revealed"—because they have been exposed very often, and again and again requests have been made urging the Government to take action.
I thought that would catch the Noble Lady. At the present moment we have widespread malnutrition in this country. We claim that the first thing for the defence of this country is a healthy, sound population. You will not get the kind of service you want in this country unless you base it on that. What happens? I say that human life is always put after profit. Let us take an example. What happened in the crisis? Profiteering in spades, in buckets, in timber and in sandbags. Because of the nation's needs prices were rushed up in order to make fortunes out of the nation. We have a right to complain. People on the other side have not, because they are only carrying out the Government's own philosophy. The organisation of this country is on that basis. I had a good example given to me this week. A friend of mine was staying at a watering place and she saw the conditions of the fishermen living in the direst poverty. They are leaving the sea now because of their poverty. They were wanted in the last War, and if there is another war they will be wanted again. She went to their cottages and saw their conditions. Then she went into a hotel and saw people with extremely expensive cars and extremely expensively dressed. "Who are those people?" she asked,  and she was told, "They sell fish at Billingsgate." There you have the contrast between the people who do the work and the people who take the profits. In agriculture to-day you will find the same thing—flourishing middlemen as contrasted with the position of the farmers and agricultural labourers.
I never suggested that.
The right hon. Gentleman says that the solution has been carried out. The whole of my point was that the solution was not carried out.
Will the Lord Privy Seal be the responsible Minister in charge, or will he be merely a co-ordinating Minister, running round and bringing other people together?
May I ask the right hon. Gentleman to bear in mind that those who advocate a Ministry of Supply do not accept for a moment the idea that it must have compulsory powers?
