has no right to assume that that person is in a position to give the information to this House. What is the passage to which he refers? After referring to this phrase, the journalist goes on to say: 
I do not feel called upon to confirm or deny anything that appeared in a newspaper, without any authority. The hon. Member hoped that by taking up this interview he was going to obtain some information which would satisfy his restless and, I think, rather mischievous curiosity. I do not feel disposed to satisfy him, but to let him go on  guessing whether it is correct or not correct to say that it was in reference to some matter connected with the United States of America. What is quite clear is that, whether or not the information was given to the journalist, and although the hon. Member interrupted me just now to say that what he wanted to know was whether it was or was not correct that the statement referred to America, that is not what he said in his speech. What he said was that he wanted to have full particulars of the whole difference. That is precisely what I call exercising a restless and mischievous curiosity.
The late Foreign Secretary did not resign over this incident, at any rate. Therefore, that point is irrelevant to this particular matter. The whole House had full infromation both from my right hon. Friend and myself as to the points of difference on which the late Foreign Secretary did resign. There is no need of any further elucidation of that. The House knows the whole thing from beginning to end. The hon. Member is trying as I say, to fish around and get some information out of which he thinks he can extract some mischief, and, in my opinion, it is not desirable, either from the point of view of the House or the interests of the country, that these matters should be discussed on a fishing inquiry of that kind.
As I have said before, I am not going to satisfy the curiosity of the hon. Member. I am not going to attempt to deny or to affirm anything in connection with a statement in this paper or a statement in any other paper at this time or any other time on matters of this or any other kind. That  is my final word, arid I do not think there is anything more to be said.
