On a point of Order. I wish to ask you, Mr. Speaker, whether you can give us any guidance as to the scope of the Debate on the Motion of the Prime Minister?
I submit that the terms of that Motion were set down before this incident arose, that they were taken over by the Prime Minister, that it is entirely concerned with the Official Secrets Acts, that it was not set up to consider the position of a Member of this House who is summoned before a Court of Inquiry or a military Court, that it is to inquire into the action of Ministers with reference to the proceedings under the Official Secrets Acts, but that that was under consideration by this House before this  incident arose. Therefore, that Motion had not this particular action of the Secretary of State for War and the Army Council and the Court of Inquiry in mind at the time.
The terms of reference mentioned 
Surely it is open to this House to consider the report of the Committee of Privileges, and if you say that the report of that Committee puts the blame on the Court of Inquiry, is it not open to someone to urge in this House that the Committee puts the blame wrongly, and that it should have put it on the Secretary of State for War for setting up this Court of Inquiry, knowing that proceedings were taking place in this  House? Is not that point arguable by a Member on the report of the Committee of Privileges?
Are you not making an assumption that every Member might not necessarily make, that when once that Military Court was set up the Minister had no power to stop it, interfere with it or influence it? Is not that a question which can be discussed in this House? There is nothing in this report that lays down that when once the Court is set up the Secretary of State cannot interfere with it. We do not know whether he did interfere, but it is arguable that he might have interfered with it, and I am putting it to you that in discussing this report of the Committee of Privileges we are entitled to discuss it freely, and that there should not be any limitation by assuming  that the Secretary of State or the Military Court did something which is not contained actually in this report.
Is it not an assumption to say that the Secretary of State's interference ended with the setting up of the Military Court? We have no evidence that he did or did not; we do not know.
We do know, as a matter of fact, that when the Committee of Privileges was set up the right hon. Gentleman took action to stop the Military Court sitting. You are assuming necessarily that because that Court was set up the Secretary of State's interference ended. I am asking you whether there is anything in this report to give grounds for that assumption?
With respect to you, Sir, it says just the contrary.
On a point of Order. May I submit to you that there were three  statements by the hon. Member for Norwood (Mr. Sandys)? The first was on 27th June, which was a Monday, and the matters arising out of that are the matters that are referred to the Select Committee according to the Motion by the Prime Minister on the day when he set up the Select Committee. But subsequent to that there was on 29th June a further statement by the hon. Member for Norwood, in which he said that he had been summoned to appear before a military court of inquiry, and it was on that second statement that the Committee of Privileges was set up, and the matter referred to the Select Committee is the questions that were raised by the hon. Member for Norwood's statement on 27th June, which contained no reference at all to the military Court of Inquiry, because at that time he had not been summoned to attend before it and may not even have known that it was set up. I submit, therefore—and I wanted to catch your eye when you gave your previous Ruling —that this question of the military Court of Inquiry is not among the matters submitted to the Select Committee, because they are directed to inquire into the statement of 27th June, which contains no reference at all to the military Court of Inquiry.
I would like to submit that you have ruled that this matter of the setting up of the Court of Inquiry is one of those matters which will be inquired into by the Select Committee. It forms part of their reference. The Select Committee is appointed to inquire into the substance of a statement made on 27th June by the hon. Member for Norwood and the actions of the Ministers concerned. I take it the Ministers were concerned in the matter in that particular complaint and any subsequent complaint, and what I want to make sure of is that  if we are ruled out from raising the matter in this House we shall not be subsequently ruled out on the Select Committee by a statement that the matter arose on something which took place after 27th June
