As the Prime Minister is alluding to a number of communications and conversations, I take it that we shall have a White Paper to enable us to judge for ourselves?
I am quite sure that I can speak for everyone on this side when I say that we have heard the statement of the late Foreign Secretary and the late Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs with profound sympathy. This House is always generous to its Members when they are making personal statements. It is only two years ago since we had a personal statement by another Foreign Secretary. My sympathy with the late Foreign Secretary is all the  stronger because his speech was followed by the present Prime Minister, while the present Home Secretary was followed by Lord Baldwin of Bewdley. We shall require full information as to these transactions, because I gathered from the Prime Minister's speech that we have not had one Foreign Office operating, but two Foreign Offices. From what I heard of the Prime Minister's speech my sympathy is with the Foreign Secretary, whose efforts were interfered with by what seemed to be extremely amateur methods. We should have had even keener sympathy with the late Foreign Secretary and his colleague if they had resigned at the time of the Hoare-Laval agreement? In the speeches which they made to this House they have, I think, taken the line that the representative of a British Government should take in foreign affairs. They have taken the line of courage and the line based on principle.
He said that we were very good friends. But he never told us whether the French Government were consulted as to whether they agreed or what had been the reception of these events in France as compared with the reception with which they met in other countries. What does this mean? It means in effect some kind of agreement with Signor Mussolini under which he is going to be the master of the Mediterranean.  It is quite obvious all through these events that the Government have been hoping that General Franco will win. That would be an extremely dangerous position for this country and an extremely dangerous position for France. Herr Hitler makes no bones about what he wants to see in Spain. He wants to see a strong Nationalist Government in Spain, a strong Fascist Government on the borders of France. As far as I can gather the right hon. Gentleman wants to see the same thing.
