Yes, Sir, that is quite right.
I would not like to say without notice, but I rather think that that is correct.
No, Sir; we cannot accept the view, which I think the hon. Member takes, that we should give up altogether our own opinions and accept without question those of some other Government. We have to look after the interests of this country, and also to look at the probabilities of achieving success in the policy we are following, I believe with the approval of hon. and right hon. Gentlemen opposite. We have to take into consideration all the factors which bear on this question.
I do realise that uncertainty is being created by a number of people who are all the time suggesting that, if there is any fault, it must be the fault of the British Government. That  is a purely partisan attitude, and I do not think it is conducive to the interests of this country; but I cannot be held responsible for that. I have said that there has been ho delay on the part of the Government in carrying on these discussions, and I have no reason to suppose that we shall not arrive at a satisfactory conclusion, but it is quite impossible for me to give a date at which I shall be able to say that conclusions have been reached.
That is another partisan observation which is characteristic of the right hon. Gentleman.
I think that, when a conclusion has been arrived at, it would be very desirable that the nation should have full information, but I do not think that, while the negotiations are still in progress, it is desirable to publish a stage at which they have arrived or the nature of the various proposals which are being put forward on one side or the other; and, if the "Times" is to be believed—a paper which I think is generally read very attentively by hon. and right hon. Gentlemen opposite—the Soviet Government do not think it good for their people even to publish that any proposals or counter-proposals are being discussed at all.
I have nothing further to add to what I have said already.
Yes, Sir, that is quite correct, and I would add Turkey as well.
Yes, Sir.
Perhaps the hon. Member would suggest with whom I should make personal contact, because personalities change rather rapidly.
