Yes,£75 a year. Therefore, if a man has£75 a year, he may still get, in addition to that,£150 if the trustees decide that that is the amount which should be paid to him, and similarly with regard to the widow, only in her case it would be£50 and not£75. I am not going to enter into arguments against the views of those who would take objection to the proposals in this Bill. I respect those who have objections of a substantial kind, and I recognise that this is a matter on which there may very well be differences of opinion, but for myself I still feel, as I did last February, that underlying the political differences between various sections of this House there is something which we all have in common, and that is a regard for the House as a corporate body and as part of the constitution of this country. And so the thought that we can ensure by the provisions of this Bill that, so far as funds will permit, a fellow-Member whose voice and face have long been familiar to us shall not, when  he leaves this House, be reduced to poverty because he is too old or too infirm to support himself—that thought makes a strong appeal to me. It appeals to me not only because it is in accord with our common feelings of humanity, which, I think, are always most pained by the distress of those with whom we have come into close contact in the course of our lives, but also from the conviction that the provisions we are making in this Bill will, when they become law, strengthen the attachment of future Members to this House and will increase the respect which it already enjoys.
I think the House must now be nearly ready to divide on the Motion for the Second Reading of this Bill, which has now been debated for several hours, and I hope hon. Members will feel it is appropriate for me to say one or two words to wind up the Debate. We have heard a number of speeches both for and against the Bill. The general impression left upon my mind, I must say, is that hon. Members who have spoken have come here with their minds made up one way or the other, and that they are not very open to argument. I want at any rate to repeat what I said before, that in spite of what was said by my hon. Friend who moved the Amendment opposing the Second Reading of the Bill, this is a free vote of the House which is to be taken to-night, and I am not asking anybody to vote for the Bill because of any personal feelings of loyalty towards me or towards the Government. This is a matter which affects Members of the House alone, and I consider that every Member is entitled to make up his own mind as to the proper course to take, and to vote in accordance with his conscience.
I really do not think that is relevant to the point I am making, which is a very much narrower one and I am not prepared to enter upon a discussion of that kind now. I think the real question before us to-night is that which was put forcibly by the hon. Member for Gorbals (Mr. Buchanan). We have a practical scheme before us now which can be carried out and which will achieve the general objects we have in mind. Is there any other scheme we can think of, which is likely to be more practical than the one now before the House? I venture to think there is not. The question is this—if we want a scheme at all, we had better take the scheme which is before us while we can get it, and not allow ourselves to be diverted by the possibility that some better scheme might be devised.
Therefore, people have to pay Surtax on a certain amount of income which they have never received. I do not wish to detain the House by repeating arguments which have already been used, but I think the short point to be made is this. Here is a practical scheme which may be open to objections from one point of view or another, but which is not a scheme imposing any tax upon the general taxpayer. I confess I am not at all moved by the argument of some of my hon. and right hon. Friends that this might be made a subject of misrepresentation in the country. I have never thought it right to refrain from doing anything which I felt was right, because it was likely to be misrepresented in the country. I think it is the duty of hon. Members, if they think that a particular Measure is going to be misrepresented, to correct that misrepresentation.
