I do realise the dangers of the British Broadcasting Corporation becoming too bureaucratic in its conduct, but I think the right hon.  Gentleman and the House will appreciate that under war conditions it is frequently necessary to make very quick decisions, and the arrangement which has been made was made in agreement with the B.B.C. in order to ensure that it will be possible to take decisions swiftly and without undue delay.
I have given the reason why.
Perhaps in view of the last question I might make the following statement. The Minister of Information has called my attention to the question of his responsibility for news and has represented to me that his position in regard to it should be clarified. I wish, therefore, to state that his responsibility for news has not extended in any way whatever beyond the provision of means for its communication to the Press. His function has been simply to issue from a central source whatever news has been made available to him by other Departments of the Government. For this purpose there are special mechanical facilities available at the Ministry of Information which are, I am sure, of great advantage to the representatives of the Press. Further, my Noble Friend has informed me that in consultation with the Ministers concerned and with representatives of the Press, he is now engaged upon a review of the arrangements for the distribution of news, including the question of direct contacts between the Press and the Departments.
The hon. Member must realise that the conditions are very different from what they where. It is not possible in present circumstances to maintain quite the same standard as before the war. [Hon. Members: "Why?"] I am sure that the Governors of the Broadcasting Corporation will do their utmost to give the greatest possible variety.
We had perhaps better let the matter stand as it is for the lime being. If there is need for a revision of the arrangements, no doubt we can consider it further.
There has never been any attempt to prevent criticism of the Department by the Press or anybody else.
