It is the local tribunal which will have to assign him to the particular category. It is only after he has been before the local tribunal that it will be decided whether or not he is to go into that category which is unconditional. If he is dissatisfied with the decision of the local tribunal he can go to the appellate tribunal which is provided for later in Sub-section (8) of the same Clause.
Not under the regulations. If the right hon. Gentleman will look at Sub-section (8) he will see that the Minister, if he considers it necessary, may appeal to the appellate tribunal.
Yes, Sir. The decision of the local tribunal, if there is no appeal, or the decision of the appellate tribunal if the man has gone to the appellate tribunal, is final. That is provided in Sub-section (9). Once that decision has been taken the man is free and there is no further interference.
I think that these things really are quite clear. I would  refer the hon. Member to the proviso to Sub-section (8), which says: 
There will be opportunity when they can be debated, but that will not arise on this Bill.
I have explained why. I have given the House the information. It will be debated on another occasion.
—I say, yes, and I think I can speak for the country. A great deal of anxiety has been expressed, very naturally and very widely, as to the possibilities of loss of employment on the part of those who are called up, and it is generally recognised that here the Government have made an honest effort to deal with that particular matter.
I do not think this is the occasion to discuss a question which is, obviously, one that might well be brought up in Committee. I can assure the House that the Government are anxious to have the co-operation of the whole House in approving this Bill, wherever possible, and if the various provisions that we have set down can be improved by suggestions from any part of the House I can say at once that we shall be only too glad to receive and, if possible, accept those suggestions. The House will appreciate the importance of Clause 7. We are anxious as quickly as possible to put the provisions of the Bill into operation, and this is a Clause which will give simplification of procedure by which the Service Departments can obtain the possession of land within a comparatively short time.
I was attempting to say that, in addition to the existing volunteer units in Northern Ireland, it has been decided to re-constitute the North Irish Horse on a Supplementary Reserve basis in Northern Ireland, in the form of a Light Tank Unit of the Royal Armoured Corps. I believe that that is an announcement which will give great satisfaction throughout Northern Ireland.
In peace time.
