It is not properly described as a committee but rather as a Tribunal. I have already given the terms of reference to the Tribunal, and from these my hon. and gallant Friend will see exactly what it is they are desired to do.
In reply to the questions that have been put, first of all let me say that no one is more anxious than the Government to see this vessel raised, for the reasons that have been put forward. While the vessel is at the bottom of the sea there may still always be doubts as to what happened, and those doubts might be cleared away if the vessel were raised. Therefore, for that reason alone we are extremely anxious to see the vessel brought to the surface and properly examined. The matter is at present in the hands of the Mersey Docks and Harbour Board, who are employing the Liver-pool and Glasgow Salvage Association, and I have no reason to think that they will fail to bring the vessel up. I do not think we ought to contemplate that hypothesis at the present time. If such a thing did occur one would have to consider the circumstances and the reasons why it was thought necessary by them to abandon the attempt. Therefore, at this stage I cannot go any further than to express the hope and the expectation that success will be achieved. Secondly, I do most sincerely and earnestly deprecate publication in any form or in any conditions, of any speculation as to what happened, now that a court has been set up to investigate the circumstances. It clearly will be impossible to obtain any indication of the real causes of this terrible disaster until the evidence has been given and considered by the Tribunal. I hope, therefore, whatever people may have thought or said in the past, that they will now say no more about it until the Tribunal reports. With regard to the evidence before the Tribunal, of course I imagine that it is open to anybody to communicate with the Tribunal and say that they have something which they desire to put before it. I think it will be for the Tribunal itself to decide what evidence it should call and what should be relevant to the inquiry.
The Tribunal is asked to report, and that report may contain a recommendation or not. There is nothing to prevent the Tribunal making recommendations.
