If the right hon. Gentleman will have a little patience I shall not keep him waiting very long. The Appropriation Bill and the Isle of Man (Customs) Bill are both annual Bills which must be passed. We may also have to consider Lords Amendments to the Cotton Industry (Reorganisation) Bill and other Bills, a draft Order made under the Ministry of Supply Act and an Order relating to the temporary barley scheme for the 1939 crop, proposed to be made when the Agricultural Development Bill becomes law, an Amendment to the Rumanian Clearing Office Order, and a number of other items, including Motions to approve additional Import Duties Orders and other necessary business. Then with regard to the question of Supply, a number of Supplementary Estimates have been presented, but most of them arise out of legislation which has been considered this Session. We have had, out of the 20 allotted days, so far 11 days, and, therefore, nine days still remain. In considering the Parliamentary programme—
There are ways and means of dealing with matters of that kind, if not dealt with before. In considering the condition of the Parliamentary programme I have had in mind what I think to be the desire of hon. Members in all parts of the House, namely, to avoid, if possible, sitting over August Bank Holiday. [Hon. Members: "No."] There are some hon. Members, apparently, who are thirsting for work and do not want to take any holiday at all.
I do not know how long a holiday it is possible: for the House to have, but the sooner we can begin it, the longer it is likely to be. If the proposal that I put forward is accepted, I hope it may be possible to take the Motion for the Summer Recess on Friday, 4th August. Let me consider for a moment what we have in front of us. After to-day, until Friday, 4th August, there are 10 whole days and three Fridays available, equivalent to 111/2 whole days. It is clearly impossible to pass the essential legislation I have mentioned and to adjourn on 4th August if we have to give time for all the remaining Supply days, because the completion of the business of Supply in the nine clays which still remain, with the Appropriation Bill and the Motion for the Summer Adjournment, would exhaust the whole of the time available. It is for that reason, therefore, that I am asking the House to forgo four alloted days for Supply this Session. If we do that we believe that we shall have sufficient margin for consideration of the necessary business, although some of the Bills that I have mentioned are not yet before the House and it is not easy to estimate how much time they will require.
For purposes of greater convenience, I was confining myself to Government Bills.
The hon. Member is one of the oldest Members of the House, and probably knows more about general elections than anyone else.
As regards the Shipping (Assistance) Bill, I have already said that we want to make progress with that Bill, and the Second Reading is being taken to-day. I have put before the House quite frankly the position as regards congestion of business and the proposal which we are putting forward in order to enable the House to rise on 4th August. I dislike very much having to introduce a measure of this kind. I regards it as one which is entirely exceptional, and only to be justified by exceptional circumstances. But I must say that, in this abnormal period to which I have referred, and in view of the extra work that has necessarily been placed upon the House, it seems to me that the measure is justified.
There are five days, not four.
I think it might be convenient if we now come to a decision on the Motion, seeing that we have very important legislation to discuss to-day. By the indulgence of the House I might say a few words in reply to what has been said. The hon. Member for West Leeds(Mr. V. Adams) stated that he had been semi-officially informed that it was inappropriate for back benchers to express any opinion upon this Motion. I do not know what was the source of that instruction, but it certainly did not come from this bench. The observations of the party Leaders opposite have referred not so much to the Motion but to the question whether it is proper for the House to have a holiday at all. I should like to confine my remarks solely to the Motion to reduce the number of Supply days. The right hon. Member for Caithness and Sutherland (Sir A. Sinclair) said there was no exact precedent for the Government's proposal, and he devoted some time to the precedent for cutting down Supply days in 1929. I thought it right to give the House that precedent for reducing the number of Supply days, but those hon. Members who heard me will recollect that I did not rest my case on the 1929 precedent. I do not think that is the nearest analogy to the present circumstances. In my view, the analogy of the War years is far more appropriate to the present position than anything that is based upon a desire for having an election.
That was not in my mind.
The right hon. Gentleman is a great authority on procedure, and I have no doubt that he has studied all the precedents. If he studies what his own Government did, he will probably find the precedent there.
I am afraid I cannot say.
There is nothing mysterious about it. It was done over and over again.
