I tried to explain that there must necessarily be a clear distinction between those who run small businesses and work hard, and receive profits in recognition of their service to the community, and those who receive profits although they certainly do not give any kind of service to the community.
I did not use that word, but it seems that my hon. Friend wishes to use it.
If the hon. Gentleman will be a little patient I shall not only give him one example but, if time permits, many others. I cannot do better than quote from a speech made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer in the House soon after he assumed office. My right hon. and learned Friend said: 
I respectfully suggest that what I am speaking about is particularly within the province of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who issued the White Paper on personal incomes, profits, rents and other like sources.
I am making this speech and not the hon. Member for Newark (Mr. Shephard), and I am going to make it not in the way which he wishes but in my own way.
I have given way a number of times. What happened was that the Chancellor himself at a Press conference in July, 1948, said: 
I am not giving those details. I could, if necessary, but  I have not them with me. I am saying that lest it should be thought that the gross increases in the profits of some of these companies were annulled by the additional fences which the Chancellor of the Exchequer has put up in the way of taxation, there is still a very great and continuous increase in the profits.
The gross aggregate profit of those 100 companies has been multiplied by five. The combined nominal capital before reconstruction  was in the region of £15,500,000 and after reconstruction it was in the region of £34 million, but the market value of those new issues was about £97 million; so that from an original nominal capital of £15,500,000, by this process we arrive at capital which is now worth about £97 million, which is an increase of over £80 million. None of that money has gone into the businesses; it has all gone into the pockets of the original shareholders of those companies, and that is the essential thing about this. If it were money going into the businesses for further development, that would be quite justifiable, but all those company reconstructions involve money going to individuals. In practically all cases a portion, sometimes the whole, of the newly-issued capital was put on the market at greatly inflated values. In nearly all cases a certain proportion was retained. There was every reason for a retention of a portion because in all these cases a very high rate of dividend was being received.
rose—
The hon. and gallant Gentleman is misrepresenting me.
Shall I inform the hon. and gallant Gentleman?
There is a private company. A new private company is formed to take it over. Let us say that the directors in the previous company had £10,000 nominal each. They are now given £100,000 in the new company, and because the company has been doing well the £100,000 is now worth £400,000. They unload some of the shares on the public; others they retain. That is putting it in a nutshell for the hon. and gallant Gentleman.
No, £10,000 for each individual.
The hon. and gallant Gentleman does not understand.
Would the hon. Gentleman also admit that these tendencies about which I have been speaking have the effect of raising prices and retaining them at an extremely inflated level? Is not that also a tendency?
I did not say that.
