I am extremely glad to have that assurance. I am sure that the right hon. Gentleman did not use those words earlier. Now he has told us that this is a very important Bill. It was introduced in another place as being a small Bill, but that statement was rather revised later by the Minister, who admitted that it was a Bill of some importance.
The residents in the various Colonies, if that is preferred. I, too, am a native, and I do not mind a little bit, but I am surprised that the hon. and gallant Gentleman is so touchy about it.
We are told that there is to be the most up-to-date equipment, and the hon. and gallant Member for Horncastle (Commander Maitland) has referred to the possibility of naval aircraft, and my hon. Friend the Member for Stretford (Mr. Austin) mentioned landing grounds. These are matters which we want to hear more about and. certainly, in the Debate in the House of Lords, we were given to understand that the latest technical developments will be brought into play in regard to these Colonial naval developments.
May I make it quite clear that, although there is nothing wrong with the terms of the Bill, I do ask that the background policy behind it should be more clearly explained?
As the hon. Gentleman seems to think that we are all ignorant about the Cocos Islands, may I ask him whether he knows that there has been a telegraphic station there for 25 years and that I have visited it?
And to build up enemies.
On a point of Order, Mr. Deputy-Speaker. May I point out that this Bill is: 
It was made clear in another place that the cost of up-to-date equipment would be borne by this country. There seemed to be a clear line drawn there. Is that the case?
I think that the hon. Gentleman missed the point. I asked specifically what would be the relationship between these forces being built up, particularly in the Pacific, and what backing they would receive. Are we to have Royal Naval forces in the Pacific? At the moment, I gather we have none at all  and that we are relying on the American Navy. Will that be the state of affairs in the coming years?
