May I argue further on your Ruling? I take it that I am right in assuming that we are entitled to debate the report of the Committee of Privileges and everything contained in that report, and that the contrary opinion may be expressed and sustained from any quarter of the House. For instance, take this sentence: 
With great respect, and apologising for pressing this point, which is of some importance, I will ask you this: Might not the fact that the Committee of Privileges makes no reflection on the Military Court be due to the fact that the Secretary of State has accepted responsibility, and would it not be proper to state that in the Debate, as showing the reasons why the Select Committee did not make, or might be assumed not to have made, any reflection on the Military Court? Are not questions of reflection on the Military Court and matters connected with the reasons why they did not make a reflection, arguable matter, and germane to the discussion of the Report?
Did I understand you to say, and did I hear you aright in saying, that the report of the Committee of Privileges put the blame upon the Military Court of Inquiry? Because it appears to me to do the contrary. The report says: 
Without making any reflection on them.
We know he did.
I came to the House this afternoon not at all expecting that any controversial matter would be introduced into our discussion. I am still disposed to make a very few observations, mainly of a laudatory character on our Ministers, our institutions and, generally, on the way in which this Privilege affair—I am keeping very strictly within the limits of the topics that we can discuss—has been conducted. Except in one respect, which I shall come to later on, which has newly dawned upon my conscience, I am in hearty accord with the Report of the Committee of Privileges, which I understand it is in order for us to debate. I feel that we owe a debt to our chairman, the Prime Minister, for having led us unanimously to this conclusion. The technical grounds of this breach of Privilege are clear. The hon. Member for Dundee (Mr. Foot) has pointed them out. A Member of this House while preoccupied with the duty to attend before a Select Committee, of which the Prime Minister had already given notice, was summoned to appear before an inferior court upon the same subject or upon matters cognate to that subject. He was, therefore, in a Parliamentary sense obstructed in the performance of his Parliamentary duties.
That was not a case where officers set themselves against the authorities, they resigned their commissions, but I should be straying rather far from the narrow path along which I have to progress if I attempted to deal fully with that matter, although I am quite capable of discussing it in detail. But military questions, obviously of the highest consequence, are raised in view of the fact that it appears that this Court is alone responsible for its action and that there is not responsibility higher than this Court. I shall not press any further upon this subject, though I feel astonished that we have not had an appeal to the Chair by the Secretary of State for War to be allowed, almost as a personal matter, to stand between this subordinate Court and the censure which is now directed upon it. Every instinct would have prompted him to spring up and say not merely "I take the full responsibility" in the technical sense, but to say it precisely that these officers were obeying the orders of a higher authority in everything they did. The blame does not rest upon them but on those who have told us that they accept responsibility for their action. That is all I wish to say on this particular subject which I might, indeed, have illuminated a little further but for the conditions under which we are discussing the matter.
I was under the impression that, in signing this Report, I was casting no reflection on the Military Court, but I have heard from you, Sir, that the Report puts blame on the Military Court. That has altered my view about the Report, and the reasons which I gave.
I shall not qualify in the slightest degree what I said.
Since the hon, and gallant Member has appealed to me to say what I think the practice should have been at that stage, I will say this. I should have thought that the Adjutant-General, in the ordinary course, would have said to the Secretary of State for War, "This matter is taking its course, but in view of what happened in the House of Commons yesterday, ought it not to be suspended?" If the Adjutant-General had not said that, then the Secretary of State himself ought to have said, "In view of what happened in the  House of Commons yesterday, obviously this court must be delayed." That is what would have happened, according to my experience.
That matter is not for the future. This Debate deals specifically with the Report of the Committee of Privileges; that is what we are discussing naw; and certainly I myself, when I heard that it was proposed to insert these words exonerating the military Court, naturally came to the conclusion that it remained open to the House in debate to search further for the person upon whom the breach of privilege censure alighted.
