I am glad that Questions in the form which give away to the enemy matters which are essentially secret, and are against the public interest, are not accepted by the Clerks at the Table, and I think the views of Ministers would be considered in that respect.
indicated assent.
If my hon. Friend had paid half the attention to the full and very respectful statement which I have made to the House that he was accustomed to giving to obstructing my efforts to get this country properly defended before the war, I would not have had to answer this Question at all.
Far from withdrawing what I said, I will take the liberty of sending the hon. Gentleman a copy of one of his interventions in Debate, which I looked up only last night, in which he did his utmost to discredit me when I was doing my utmost for the country.
There would be no conceivable injury to the public interest in these two facts being known. I am entirely indifferent on that subject. But I think that if we are to have the Government cross-questioned about this committee and Secret Service work, and one point after another is brought out, and Members say, "Why did you not tell us that before?" that is a process which would be vitiating the measures of secrecy taken by the Government in this matter, and a right which is claimed by every other Government.
The House watches the Prime Minister and the other Members of the Government and says whether it has or has not confidence in their general integrity and purpose, and then those Ministers and the Prime Minister watch the others to make sure that they keep up to the mark.
The main purport of my answer was that I would answer no further Questions, at any time, on this particular subject. Whether it is convenient or easy for me to answer them or not, I would not think of answering any of them. I have said that it is not in the public interest that private matters of this kind should be ferreted out and discussed in public. I should have thought that, having appealed to the House in this way, the Government might receive that consideration which they are entitled to claim.
That is covered by the very careful and lengthy answer which I have given. At any rate, that is the position which the Government take up.
