I said that I did not think it would be advisable to answer a number of questions. I remain of that opinion.
We are going into the very thing I said I would like to avoid, namely, a Debate. I have no reason to fear a Debate on the subject, except that I think it would be necessary to put a case which would cause widespread pain.
In this last week of great success, I should think as large a proportion of our time was given to the discussions about General de Gaulle and his affairs and his Committee as to any other subject. I can assure the House that it is not that these matters are not engaging the attention of His Majesty's Government. They are very much indeed. But I am reluctant to bring them to a head at present, and I hope that a better solution will be achieved than would be the case, if there had to be a quite definite threshing out of the matter in the House of Commons. With regard to the financial point, it is rather technical. The President made a statement last night, which is published, I believe, in this morning's papers, but I have not had a chance of reading that statement. I could not commit myself to anything about finance—a statement about which might well be made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer—until we know what it is that the President has said on the subject. It seems to me, however, quite clear that if notes are given out to the French population, in return for livestock and other services, the responsibility for meeting them, in the first instance at any rate, would lie with the Governments issuing them.
I am afraid the hon. Gentleman's question was so long that I have forgotten what was the point of it. I am quite certain that there has been no breach of the financial regulations and rules and practices of the House. In regard to any issue of chits or notes, in foreign countries, that is all covered by the general conditions of the expenditure on the war, and all has to be accounted for to the House in the proper method and at the proper time. As for the general question of whether there is entire agreement throughout the country and in the House, on all the ways in which the different foreign policies, as affecting all the various countries, have been handled, I can assure the House that I have never aimed at so high an ideal, and, when I think of some of the persons who would have to be converted, I am very glad that I never set my aim so high.
I never intended it to be indefinite postponement, but I do not think it would be a good thing to have a Debate in the House now. I am certain it would do more harm that good, and might lead to things being said which afterwards were found to have very serious repercussions, because, if attacks are made, answers will be given, whenever required. Therefore, I still adhere to my request to the House, and my advice to the House—it can only be advice; I am entirely in their hands—that they will not raise this matter at this time. But I assure the House it is my earnest desire to give them the fullest account of all these matters, when that can be done without prejudice to such hopes as remain, in respect of such matters in the future.
I do not at all agree that there is great and widespread anxiety. It certainly deserves careful and unremitting attention, but I think that, if there is great and widespread anxiety in this matter, it will be, and should be, properly directed to our gallant soldiers who are striking down the enemy in France and advancing continually, and to the great operations which are in progress, and which give hope as well as anxiety. It seems to me very lacking in proportion for hon. Members—Would the hon. Member like to say something more? If he does not wish to do so, perhaps he will allow me to finish what I have to say. I say, I think it shows a marked sense of disproportion and I am earnestly  hoping that we shall not be pressed at this time. If I had no hopes of a better solution than I could announce at the present time, I would not0 ask for the delay.
