Might I be allowed to finish? Then the hon. Gentleman, who was not in his place when I began this talk—
I am not blaming the hon. Gentleman.
I am not blaming the hon. Member at all.
The importance of the Business of this Committee is not affected by my presence. [HON. MEMBERS: "Oh."]Really, I am not going to have flattery from this quarter. I am trying to talk this matter over in a very friendly manner.
I am finishing now. In an inconceivably short space of time, I shall be seated and the hon. Gen-  tleman, if he should catch the Chairman's eye, will then be able to fall upon me with all his pent-up ferocity. For the moment, I just wish to say that I should like the Committee to consent to the omission of these two Clauses, to let the local authorities get on with the work of planning and let us see whether we can, by taking further thought, produce, with good will and perseverance, an overtaking, or at the very worst an intercepting, solution, in the shape of a separate Bill which will be satisfactory to the House.
I came—after an interval, I must frankly confess, for physical refreshment—straight from the Cabinet to the Committee to make this statement, and to express their wishes and their views. I am convinced that the right hon. Gentleman the Minister of Labour and I look at this matter at the present moment, and this solution—reserving all the natural differences which exist between us on so many matters but proclaiming at the same time all the associations that we have in common—in entire agreement.
On a point of Order. I submit that I did not discuss the merits. I carefully avoided that. All I discussed was the propriety of dealing with the matter at this moment, and all my remarks were in Order on the Question "That the Clause stand part."
Not indefinitely.
I made another statement which is very important, and which I gathered hon. Members on both sides would be likely to attach importance to, namely, that we shall insert words now, in this Bill, words which will make it clear that the appointed day cannot be reached until the overtaking Bill dealing with compensation has been passed.
It is not a promise. A promise is one thing. A statutory enactment is another, and it is a statutory enactment that I propose.
What about Report stage?
I must say that am very agreeably impressed with the resolve to face practical difficulties and realities in this matter which has shown itself in the Committee at the present time, but I want to get this Bill. We cannot afford to lose this Bill. I think we are all agreed about that, and, therefore, I think we are all agreed that, as far as to-day goes, we can postpone these Clauses, because to plunge in upon them will frustrate the desire to get the Bill and cause trouble. I am quite ready to say that the Government would rather have the Bill, with the Clauses, in a broadly agreed form, than have the Bill go forward and another Bill come along to overtake it. If we have to choose between that and losing the Bill, we would rather have this cumbersome method of the tank being separated from the engine, and the engine having to go back and catch it. We are all agreed what to do this afternoon. So far as I can make out, it is pretty nearly universal. There are the week-end and Monday, and I certainly think that discussions should proceed, through the usual channels and also in the Cabinet, to see whether we can save this Bill and have an agreed compensation Clause.
indicated assent.
Nothing would hurt me more than to lure the hon. Member for Ebbw Vale (Mr. A. Bevan) into the Lobby under a misunderstanding for which he might well conceive me blamable. I thought he clearly understood that we are moving that these Clauses be dropped now, and that thereafter we shall make a further endeavour to see if agreement can be reached. We must know where we are. It is no good getting vexed about it. I think what we might get vexed about would be if things were not clear. I always try to make things clear so that every hon. Gentleman knows what course to take. I am very sorry—
It was one of the hon. Gentleman's supporters in this matter who interrupted, and I was giving him this assurance, namely, that what we are suggesting is to drop these Clauses now, and then to see whether any arrangement can be made in the intervening life of the Session by which these Clauses can be restored in a form agreeable to the Committee—
In this Bill. The procedure of the House is quite capable of handling a situation like this. As was pointed out by the hon. Member for Ebbw Vale, we can recommit the Bill, introduce Clauses on Report and so forth. If all else fails, then what I first suggested will have to come into operation, namely, we shall have to have an overtaking Bill, otherwise we lose the Bill.
With very great respect, I would submit that it is rather unusual to put to the Chair, Major Milner, a question affecting the whole character and composition of the Bill on one single point, and it would be more respectful to the Chair, I submit with great temerity, that the matter should be given some consideration.
No.
We are dropping the Clauses from the Committee stage.
We are governed by physical limitations. Among other things, the Bill has to go to another place, and it does not at all follow that their Lordships will ignore some of these issues which may be presented by it.
They have as much right to live as anybody else; everybody in a free country has a right to live; and if he is given constitutional powers, he has the right to use them. As I said, the Bill has to go to another place and that may take some time. I am afraid that if it runs to the end of the Session we shall lose the Bill, and I do not want to lose it. What we have said is that we should move to drop the Clauses now. We have control of the Bill for perhaps eight or nine days before it must go upstairs, if it is to go any further. In this period it is my hope that we may reach some agreement which will easily enable these Clauses to be reinstated. If that fails, then the suggestion I made earlier will come into operation.
Yes, we accept that.
