That is exactly the point I am making. We give these matters our very close attention. Let me say here, in answer to my hon. Friend the Member for Broxtowe (Mr. Cocks), that the foreign policy of this Government is not a matter that is left to the impulse of a Prime Minister or to the sole discretion of a Foreign Secretary. These matters are debated and discussed very fully in Cabinet. I can assure him we have endless discussions. Therefore we do try to arrive at an opinion on the facts.
My hon. Friend gave a long list. The Foreign Secretary will be replying to-morrow. My hon. Friend gave us rather a long history. I can tell him straight away that there are a great many instances on which he was completely mistaken. I would ask him to think that on these matters I am as desirous as he is of seeing that the truth shall prevail and that we shall support the principles we hold in common. I would not like him, therefore, to assume always that the word of a Greek, or the word of Mr. Drew Pearson, is better than the word of His Majesty's Ministers. We are all, of course, subject to temptation in this matter. We all tend to lend credence to something which seems to support our own point of view. Otherwise, I am quite sure my hon. Friend would not have quoted Drew Pearson.
In matters of foreign policy this habit is increased by the practice of dividing the world up into Right and Left. To many people everything that comes from the Left is suspect, and to others everything that is done by the Left must be supported.
The point my hon. Friend is making is not a very good one. I am saying that is a habit of all of us. I know people who think that all people who may disagree with them are Bolsheviks. I  sometimes think that the hon. Member for West Fife (Mr. Gallacher) thinks that everyone who does not agree with him is a Fascist. But, as a matter of fact, when one comes to Right and Left, people of very different views are grouped together under these very wide umbrellas. I think, as my hon. Friend the Member for Broxtowe pointed out so well, that was the case with E.A.M. It is quite a mistake to think that E.A.M. consisted of one lot of people—of Communists. It consisted of Liberals, Socialists and Communists, people of varied political views.
I am afraid the hon. Member will find that he did if he will look at the report in HANSARD of what he said. He talked of this British Government coming in to support one side against the other. The point is that we came into Greece for a Government of all parties, Socialists and all the rest. We must get that right. It is a mistake to try to lump all people together as Right or Left, and to suggest——
I am not giving way. [Interruption.]
I am making my own speech now. The hon. Member need not talk about what the Prime Minister says.
I do not agree with my hon. Friend's translation of what the Prime Minister said. As I was saying, it is a mistake to try to lump people together like this, and to be deflected from principles by imagining that some people are all Right and some people all Left, particularly in South-Eastern Europe. When you are dealing with people like the Greeks, who are rather temperamental perhaps, and with countries which, like those of South-Eastern Europe, have had a very short experience of the working of democratic institutions, you should never try to judge them exactly on our own basis. Therefore, you should try to get quite clear in your mind what your principle is. I do not believe in dictatorship of the Right or of the Left, or in seizure by force by the Right or by the Left, whether a person calls himself a king or a leader or anything else. We believe in democracy. I hold that the trouble here has been that, while we had everything fixed up, with a Government ranging right through the whole block of political parties, which was in due course going to have a general election to decide where the majority lay, there was a forcible attempt by a minority to seize power. Some people who call themselves Left are not believers in democratic methods. It has been suggested, although it is not suggested so often now—although again, I think, my hon. Friend the Member for Broxtowe rather suggested it—that we were specially interested in putting back the King of Greece. We really are not. With the situation in Europe we had to deal with a great many Governments who, unfortunately, had been driven out of their own countries. Some were monarchists, some were republicans; in some cases there was not a Government, but only representatives. In any case, would it have been right for us, without the will of the people, to change the Government from a monarchy to a republic, or from a republic to a  monarchy? We had to deal with things as they were.
It is not a question of a Fascist, but of a Right-Wing, Government. Do not fall into the error of the hon. Member for West Fife, of thinking that everybody who is Right-Wing is Fascist. They may be old-fashioned monarchists, Catholics, and the like. Do not let Hitler get away with it by giving him too many companions. Therefore, I say that we were right to see that the Greeks got a fair chance with their own Government. I would ask hon. Members to get away from that typical British habit of dealing with the Balkans by falling in love with one party or one nationality. It is very difficult to get knowledge of all the facts. I would say that, on the record of this Government and on the known opinions of this Government, we have the right to be trusted to carry out the principles in which we believe.
I have stuck a great deal more closely to carrying out the principles in which I believe and in working with my party than has the hon. Member opposite.
