Are we to understand that we are to go on bearing the whole of this burden, with no solution to offer, no guidance to give—the whole of this burden of maintaining law and order in Palestine, and carrying on the administration, not only until September, which is a long way from February, not only until then, when the United Nations are to have it laid before them, but until those United Nations have solved the problem, to which the right hon. Gentleman has declared himself, after 18 months of protracted delay, incapable of offering any solution? How does he justify keeping 100,000 British soldiers in Palestine, who are needed here, and spending £30 million to £40 million a year from our diminishing resources upon this vast apparatus of protraction and delay?
No one would suggest that the right hon. Gentleman does not give his full attention and strength to the discharge of his extremely complicated and painful duty. We all bear witness to the exhaustive efforts he has made, and to speak of delay is in no sense a reflection on his personal devotion to duty. But I am entitled to ask the question whether what has been announced today does not mean that at least a year will pass, while the British Government remain, on their own confession, without any solution of the Palestine problem, before any solution is provided from another quarter; and  whether that is not exposing us to an unduly heavy burden, both in the absorption of our manpower, and in the further depletion of our financial resources? If this policy is right today—and this is another question I wish to ask—why could it not have been announced 12 months ago?
Perhaps I may be permitted, by way of personal explanation, as the hon. Gentleman opposite has made a statement, to say that I had nothing to do with that White Paper—
It is quite true. I stand entirely by the White Paper of 1922. I am entirely opposed to the other White Paper which was issued before the war, and always have been. May I ask when an opportunity will be given to Debate this difficult and entangled problem?
On a point of Order. Has the acting Leader of the House any right to suggest that you, Sir, have countenanced disorderly practice?
