The hon. Member is now attacking His Majesty's Government who have carried out the workings of the four Boundary Commissions over which Mr. Speaker presided.
Which is the plumage and which is the dying bird?
Be careful you do not go wrong again today.
How?
Before we leave this important point, I should like to have clearly established the point which the Secretary of State for Scotland is making. He says there was an agreement about the universities, because he was of the opinion that the university Members in the last Parliament were non-party, but that, since the election, because two Conservatives have been elected, he considers there has been a breach of that agreement. He wants, therefore, to abolish the representation of the universities. [Interruption.] Surely, that is the position which he has taken up? Is not this an attempt to affront, and even intimidate, the free voting in very large constituencies of men who have had the advantage of graduating at a university, and can this be the basis of such a change?
It has been going on for 350 years.
I did not mean that hon. Members opposite took an unfair advantage but an advantage given by the arrangements, without having any recognition of the other part. That does not apply to the hon. Member, for North-West Hull (Mr. R. Mackay), but to those hon. Gentlemen who were parties to it.
I understand that the hon. Gentleman said that that a Conference, which ends in disagreement, is not on a par with a Conference which ends in agreement. We are all in agreement with him on that.
I am obliged to the hon. Gentleman for his courtesy. Is his point that because one part of the decisions are accepted which suit one party, the other part of the decisions, which are correlated and simultaneous, but which do not suit this party, should be rejected?
The hon. Member says that I have been eloquent on the subject of proportional representation. It is quite true that I expressed a view many years ago, which I have not seen any reason to dismiss from the region of theoretical principle, in favour of proportional representation in great cities. I have not expressed any views in favour of proportional representation as a whole, on account of the proved ill effects it has had on so many Parliaments.
I did not say that.
The right hon. Gentleman need not begin with needless misquotation. I said, illustrating the sovereign power of Parliament, that a Parliament might behave like a gentleman, or a cad. I did not say that right hon. Gentlemen opposite ever had such an option open to them.
To make it absolutely clear, as it was to everyone who heard what I said and who read the report, I never suggested that the right hon. Gentleman or the Prime Minister was behaving either like a cad or a crook. I used that phrase to illustrate the wide latitude which is given to Parliament to answer the claim that one Parliament cannot bind another.
Not "you cannot"; but "you ought not to."
I am obliged to the right hon. Gentleman. Our case is that his party took, in the past, when we had the power—and we gladly conceded it—their part of the bargain, which was necessary to the local elections, and when they gained the power they brushed aside all the rest of it.
Agreements.
And might have preceded it
Their eyes were opened.
I devoted quite a large portion of my speech to explaining how worried I was when this report about assimilating the local and national franchises came up. Far from concealing the fact that I took an interest in it, I devoted two or three minutes of my speech to talking of it. I did not conceal my interest from the right hon. Gentleman.
The right hon. Gentleman played a gallant part.
Which matter?
That raises no party issue. Here was an agreement between the parties. Scotland and Wales are a national matter. It is certainly on a different footing. This was a question agreed between the two great parties of the State.
