(by Private Notice) asked the Prime Minister what action he proposes to take upon the Special Report of the Select Committee on the Election of a Member, a Clergyman of the Church of Ireland—the Member for Belfast, West (Rev. J. G. MacManaway).
But may I draw the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to the fact that three months have passed since the General Election and that a  constituency with 80,000 voters has been disfranchised during the whole of that period? How do the Government propose to abridge this period of delay? Are they not now presented with a unanimous Report by the Select Committee advising legislation to remove the evil? Are they not also in possession of the legal opinion of the Attorney-General, supported by my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for West Derby (Sir D. Maxwell Fyfe) and other high legal authorities, that there is no case which would sustain a common informer? Are we to continue to keep 80,000 electors without any right to take part in this Parliament?
I certainly feel that no one would go out of his way to offer any tribute to the Government on account of any undue haste that they have shown in this matter. I had hoped to receive from the right hon. Gentleman today an assurance that the Government would legislate as rapidly as possible in the sense of the unanimous Report of the Committee. As that has not been forthcoming I wish to give notice that in my opinion, supported by a great mass of legal authority, it is the duty of the hon. Member to take the oath and take his seat at the earliest possible opportunity. That is the advice which I propose to tender to him. Does the right hon. Gentleman realise how much the procedure of Select Committees, which we imagined could deal with the matter promptly, has been, as it were,  clouded by the long delay and by all these devices of having it referred to the Privy Council and so on which, happily, the good sense of the Committee repudiated?
Have we not reason to be obliged—I put it in its interrogative form—to the Lord President of the Council for so plainly showing us his plan?
Certainly.
