Can the right hon. Gentleman mention at this stage what would be the effect on the Revenue, which I believe takes 70 per cent. of the profits, if there were a substantial measure of reduction of prices leading to a reduction of profits? Surely he ought to touch on that point during his argument.
I must interrupt again. Does the right hon. Gentleman assign sufficient weight to the fact that he gets between 60 per cent. and 70 per cent.—perhaps he would give the figure—of all these profits? If he does, why does he allow this howl against profit-making to continue without mentioning the fact that he is the profiteer?
Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman would do me the kindness to state now, as we are discussing the Motion "That the Clause stand part of the Bill"—and this is a most important matter—what is the accepted figure for the share which the Revenue takes from the profits of companies?
With great respect to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, my right hon. Friend stated the case for the Opposition. What is important is to have it from the lips of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, representing as he does the administration of the day.
There is complete agreement on the facts.
Does the right hon. Gentleman set himself to judge whether the profit has been legitimately, properly or economically acquired in each case or not, before he takes the 66 per cent. which the Exchequer pockets of all these profits?
I do not know why there should be this hilarity and air of surprise because I am anxious to ascertain the intentions of the Government, and because on the last Question we abstained from giving direct opposition to the Clause. There were various concessions and considerations which were open, and—
I follow public affairs quite closely, and we always like to vote against the Government, but my hon. Friends and advisers here had the feeling that there was something in the Clause we ought not to oppose, and, therefore, we did not wish to take a direct—[HON. MEMBERS: "Order."] Order about what?—take a direct line on the main question. But what I rose for—[HON. MEMBERS: "For what? "]
I should like to pay my tribute, not for the first time, to the careful, patient and conciliatory manner in which the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary discharges his duties as Leader of the House. We all appreciate his good feeling and his desire to have everything go through as smoothly as possible—to the advantage of the Government. Also, we are always a little bit influenced by the agreeable nature of his personality. I was sorry that he marred the somewhat serious arguments which he laid forward—and which I shall refer to in a minute—by referring to matters which apparently concern not the House but the turf. We all know the right hon. Gentleman's addiction to that pursuit, and this momentary lapse will, I am sure, be pardoned on both sides of the Committee.
We are now only at Clause 24. The right hon. Gentleman proposes we should deal with Clauses 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30 and 31. I must say it seems to me an abuse of the overwhelming majority which he possesses, and I trust will be resisted by every means in our power.
