(by Private Notice) asked the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether he has any statement to make on negotiations between this country and Egypt.
Will this report be made to the House before definite decisions have been taken or after?
I ventured to say the other day that the House has not claimed to interfere with the treaty-making power of the Government. What does the right hon. Gentleman then mean by "full and proper rights"? Would we be safe in assuming that he will endeavour to carry the House with him before he commits himself to a definite decision on so grave a matter?
Does not this amount to the fact that we are to be told nothing about this matter until a decision is taken definitely one way or the other, which may perhaps involve the immediate or early withdrawal of British troops from the Suez Canal Zone with all the consequences that that entails in the Middle East and beyond? If that is the position, are we not bound on this side of the House to initiate a debate upon the matter and make sure that the House has an opportunity of bringing home to the Government its opinion about the state of affairs in the Levant and in Egypt about which there is a great deal of anxiety at the present time?
Is not the right hon. Gentleman avoiding the point? According to what he said, the rights of Parliament would be fully preserved in that after he has taken decisions and made agreements which Parliament could not alter without a breach of our traditions and customs, and only after, we are allowed an opportunity of debating the matter. Would it not be wiser and better, as the Treaty does not end until 1956, for us to discuss this matter beforehand?
That is very important. If it is understood that no agreement which is now being made will have validity until the House has had an opportunity of discussing it, which is what I understood the right hon. Gentleman to say, I shall press the matter no further. Is that the position?
Is it not clear that the Hoare-Laval Agreement was not a treaty? Is it not also clear that the right hon. Gentleman does not mean as a general rule to abrogate the treaty-making rights of the Executive under the Crown? Is it not also clear that he is making an exception in this case by making any provisional agreement which may be reached between him and the Egyptian authorities a matter which will require the approval of the House?
