I would refer my hon. Friend to the statement made by Lord Craigavon, in which he detailed them, but I need hardly take up time in going through them now. They are fairly numerous.
I will ask my right hon. Friend to try and give to my hon. Friend the figures which he desires. Now I think I have concluded what I wished to say. I wish to commend this Bill to the House as opening a new chapter in the relations between Eire and ourselves. The members of my family have more than once in the past made an effort to improve those relations, and if I feel some confidence that the prospects of a settlement this time are more hopeful than they were before, it is because the conditions which accompanied our negotiations were themselves far more favourable than we have ever had the good fortune to meet on previous occasions. These discussions have been carried through in a spirit of accommodation and good will. I would like to pay my tribute to Mr. de Valera and his colleagues for the way in which they played their part in these discussions. We could not always agree with them, but we always felt that we had' before us men of sincerity who were genuinely anxious to meet us and to come to terms with us if they could.  In spite of all the controversies of the past and all the heat that has been generated, this country and Eire cannot do without one another. Our natural interests and our geographical position inevitably tend to bring us together, and what has kept us apart has been, not a divergence of interests, but something which ought to be far less important, and that is a difference of opinion. Somebody sent me the other day a passage from John Selden's "Table Talk," written some 300 years ago, which perhaps the House will allow me to read, because, although it is quaintly expressed, it seems to have a bearing upon this subject. He writes: 
I will give a categorical denial now. I notice that Mr. de Valera also denied it in his speech to the Dail to which I have already referred.
I do not deny that. I simply say that there is nothing of the sort to which my hon. Friend has referred. Mr. de Valera said there was no secret understanding.
On any matter.
