Surely, the House is not going to shelter behind party leaders; surely, the right hon. Member will not try to get behind such a poor little ill-filled sandbag as that. Now that I have shown hon. Members the camel they have already swallowed, I hope they will address themselves with renewed sense of proportion to this somewhat inconsiderable gnat. An office of profit is, in my view—I do not speak as a lawyer—a term of art. It applies to many positions where there is no remuneration. A Junior Lord of the Treasury, unpaid, is an office of profit, but a special mission, though it may be very highly paid and may last for years, is not a disqualifying office of profit. A foreign Embassy, even though, as in the case of the right hon. and learned Member for East Bristol (Sir S. Cripps), it is a formal, definite, diplomatic appointment, and not a special mission in any sense, has, according to the advice we have received, been held not to disqualify as an office of profit. That advice has not been challenged, or has not yet been challenged, by the House or by the common informer. [An HON. MEMBER: "He takes no salary."] That has nothing to do with it. That is one of the anomalies I am trying to bring out. It would make no difference if the right hon. and learned Member took a salary. He  takes the fees of representation necessary to the discharge of these important duties. Even though it is a formal appointhment, it has not been challenged, though I must say I should have thought it was a very doubtful case. If an office was in existence before 1705, it may be held by a Member of Parliament and profit drawn from it unless, of course, it comes under a special ban in some later Statutes, which are numerous and obscure. The High Commissionership of one of our great Dominions, not having been in existence in 1705, thus disqualifies, whereas an Embassy to a foreign country does not. I am only putting it forward to show the anomalies.
I will deal with all the facets of the argument in turn. I am assured that my hon. Friend the Member for Edgbaston might on the action of a common informer be mulcted in financial penalties, or upon a Motion in this House his election might be declared null and void. My hon. Friend is not alone. The hon. and gallant Member for Ormskirk (Commander King-Hall) and the hon. Member for Rotherhithe (Mr. Benjamin Smith) are equally in this dangerous area, but worse may come. There may be a good many more fish in the net. My right hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Burton, in his comfortable, secure position in that constituency, has not realised that not everyone is in that position of impeccable political stability which he has so long enjoyed.
The roll is not by any means necessarily final. That is the answer I give to the hon. Gentleman, and if he will not reproach me with an endeavour to suborn him, I can only say that the roll is not necessarily complete. Many things have yet to happen. This White Paper records a process reached naturally and even inevitably under the conditions of these tremendous and terrible times, and which, while it serves the interest of the nation at war, dignifies and enhances the character and quality of Parliamentary representation.
