Certainly. Children are already being sent at their parents' wish out of the danger areas, which are by no means exclusively confined to the Metropolis. There is, of course, the bomb highway over which the robots all pass before reaching that point of Southern England which I have ventured to particularise this morning. Children are being sent if their parents wish out of the danger areas and, in all cases, mothers with small children, or pregnant women, will be given full facilities by the State. And we do not propose to separate the mother from the child except by her wish, but a terrible thing happened last time. Mothers were separated from children of two or three years of age, and, after a period, when they had saved up money and got time to go down and see them, the children hardly knew them. I hope now with our growing strength, reserves and facilities for removal, we shall be able to say to a mother with three or four children, "If you wish to leave, it is perfectly possible. Arrangement will be made to take you into the country with your children. If you wish them to go by themselves and  you wish to stay here with your husband, or because of your jab, then arrangements can be made that way too." We do not consider that the scale of attack under which we lie at present justifies Governmental compulsion in' any case. In order to speed these arrangements, my Noble Friend the Minister of War Transport, Lord Leathers, has arranged that the railways should provide a larger service of trains from the London stations.
A good many questions can be asked, but the House, I am sure, would wish to have a check-up on them beforehand, because a perfectly innocent and proper question might have some connection which would tell the enemy more than we need tell him. After all, the Germans keep large Intelligence services, always prying about and trying to find out everything they can, and really we ought to leave them something to do. I can see lots of questions that could well be discussed here, and if there were some particular kind of question we wanted to talk over among ourselves such procedure is always available to the House. I am not going to attempt to parade to the House the many difficult questions that have been settled. I have mentioned a good many of them. I could give a complete list, and if I have left  anything out, that is a matter that can be reserved for a future day. We can with confidence leave our civil organisation to do their work under the watchful supervision of the House of Commons. We have had many periods in the war in which the Government have relied on the House of Commons to keep them in close touch with the people and the population affected and from whom we have welcomed helpful suggestions. I think that we can have great confidence in our civil organisation, for they have immense experience and have handled machinery which has stood far greater strains than this.
I would venture to make a suggestion on the spur of the moment. That is, that my right hon. Friend the Minister of Home Security  should depute someone to whom Members could refer, and, if they did not get satisfaction in that way, they could take such other measures as are open. I feel that there will be questions, small questions, but in some cases very painful questions, and I am anxious that the House shall keep in close touch with the Government in this affair, which we are all in together, as in so many others. But it seems to me that it would be a good thing if my right hon. Friend deputed someone 'who was a member of his Committee who could see Members who were anxious about this matter. I did something like this myself 25 years ago during demobilisation after the last war, and it gave great satisfaction. At that time questions amounted to several hundreds a day. If there is any better way of doing it, I will talk it over with my right hon. Friend, and he will make some statement to the House.
It is not for me to answer that question. It belongs to the Leader of the House. On the general question of policy, it is much better that there should be no secret Debate, which would give a sort of idea that I have not been frank with the House. I have been brutally frank. Sometime next week, if my right hon. Friend can find the time for it, it might be very useful to hear both matters which require remedy and ideas which may be put into practice.
I am afraid that I overlooked that in my speech. We always regarded these deep shelters as a reserve, and it has now been decided to make use of them. The Home Secretary is much to be congratulated in having these up his sleeve, and we must make use of them in the manner which is most effective to our general plans, not merely as places where particular individuals can camp out indefinitely, but as part of the general movement and life of London.
The case of the old and infirm must be considered and will be considered. This is one of the first matters to which my right hon. Friend will give his attention, but I think the children are the first consideration.
On the question of deep shelters, I ought to have said that it will take a few days to make the necessary arrangements.
That might easily do something which the hon. Gentleman would be the last to wish. Something might be said which might help the enemy. Every word is read and eagerly scanned in order to try to make up a case. A Debate in public very often consists of criticism, quite naturally, because those who are satisfied remain silent. I am not sure that we need unduly stress the troubles we have to face and mean to conquer, by a public Debate during which at any moment it might be necessary for the Minister to say that we ought to go into Secret Session.
I have said deliberately that that is a subject which raises grave considerations and upon which I do not intend to embark. That, I am sure, is the best way in which to leave it. Might I appeal to the House not to pursue unduly these interrogatories to-day? I weighed my words very carefully, and I would like them to represent what it is we have to put before the House and the people.
No, Sir, it would not be advisable.
That is a matter which might well be considered. I have said that extra trains will be provided.
That would be a very proper question to put to my right hon. and learned Friend the Minister of Health. Might I suggest that it would be a pity for us to make too much of this?
Those seem to be subjects which are for my right hon. and learned Friend. A great deal has been done.
Yes, Sir.
I understand that my hon. and gallant Friend was interested in mail deliveries by this flying bomb method; but on that, and on any other point, I would refer him to the Lord President of the Council, who is the head of the Committee. In addition there are the Air Minister and other Ministers who are always at my hon. and gallant Friend's disposal.
The Regional Commissioners who deal with these matters have wide powers, and then there are the Ministers particularly concerned in these matters. There is a number of ways.
I think it might be a very good idea.
Yes, with other Ministers concerned. My right hon. Friend is quite willing.
Really, that is one of those matters which can be put on the Paper.
Really, these are not questions for me to answer.
The hon. Gentleman has no right to suggest that other hon. Members do not care about saving people's lives, or that he has any monopoly of human charity—or any marked pre-eminence in human genius.
