I will speak in a moment about the increases on the personal allowances, but, as far as all this business of the Surtax and the higher rates of Income Tax is concerned, hon. Gentlemen opposite must not be drawn into exaggerated hopes. They are no longer, as we stood in the days of the Lloyd George Budget, at the first frontier of a large and fertile territory. The entire area has been swept through, harvested and gleaned, and gleaned again and again, and we stand on the far side of what is now a thoroughly scrubbed field. It is an astonishing fact—which my right hon. Friend the late Chancellor has mentioned to me—that, if you took all the incomes in this country above £2,000, every penny of it, if you took the whole of that into  the Exchequer, keeping the existing rates of Income Tax and Surtax going, the profit to the Exchequer would be £60,000,000, and that figure of £60,000,000 has to be considered in relation—that is a remarkable statement—to a Budget which has at present to be balanced in March next in the neighbourhood of £5,400,000,000. It has to be balanced at that rate. It must also be judged in relation to schemes of social betterment and reform which run into not £60,000,000 or £600,000,000, but, in many cases, into thousands of millions of expenditure in the long run. Therefore, the great glee which is manifested is rather of a shallow nature and those who feel it running through their veins should prepare themselves for the fact that that is probably the only satisfaction which they will get out of the business.
Exactly—£160,000,000 gross, roped in with the other items, making a net sacrifice by the Exchequer of £90,000,000. It would be a very great omission on my part if I did not take this opportunity to return most humble, dutiful and grateful thanks for the announcement which has been made that compulsory insurance premiums against further damage by enemy bombs, are not going to be collected. It gives one confidence to feel that one lives in a land where there is so much broadminded tolerance shown by the executive Government. But I thought it was rather hot when my right hon. Friend came along  for the last instalment after the danger against which we insured had, by the success of our arms, been swept away. It certainly does fall to the right hon. Gentleman to signalise this occasion by a memorable act of grace and generosity.
