Can the right hon. Gentleman explain how it was that the Judge Advocate-General was not consulted and made acquainted with this procedure at an earlier period? The mutiny, or what is called a mutiny, although it seemed a very mild form of mutiny compared with some we have seen in our own time, occurred in May. All June passed. Am I not right in presuming that in June convening orders were given, or the question of bringing these men to trial, either individually or collectively, was discussed? Was not the Judge Advocate-General consulted at that time? What happened in June? What happened in July, when this matter was going on? What happened in August, when these men were still confined under the severe conditions of a tropical land? Why is it only now, when a great storm has been raised in the Press and Parliament, that the Judge Advocate-General is suddenly consulted, and the right hon. Gentleman has to defer to his legal opinion and say that the whole procedure from beginning to end is quashed for the ringleaders as well as the rank and file—all their trials are quashed? How is it that for five long months the Government, with the advice of the Judge Advocate-General always available at their disposal, have permitted this matter to drag itself out to the general suffering of individuals and the impairment of discipline in the Army?
Are we to understand then that the then Secretary of State for War was officially apprised of the fact that action was to be taken against 258 men on a charge of mutiny—a collective trial as it were—and he never had any idea of asking "Is this legal? What precedents are there for this?" Are we to understand that he never asked the Judge Advocate-General, "Is this all right? Is this a legal and proper way of doing it? and that no member of the Government or of the Army Council promoted inquiries of that kind? The right hon. Gentleman is quite right in saying that I have had experience of these matters. I unhappily presided over the Army when there was a shoal of mutinies. No one ever attempted to bring large masses of the rank and file to a mass trial. There was the naval mutiny in the days of Ramsay MacDonald's Premiership, and no one thought of bringing great masses to trial. Why was this not settled by the Government and the Cabinet at the time?
Is there any reason whatever why Parliament should not know and—
Is there any reason why the irregularities which the Judge Advocate-General has now considered were such as to vitiate the trial should not be stated? I do not mean at this moment, but why should they not be made public? Surely it would be of great advantage to the future to know what are the principles on which we are proceeding. Since when has it been held to be disadvantageous to the cause of justice for the principles on which judicial authorities give their decisions to be made known? If that is not so, how are others to regulate their conduct? Was the question of the mass trial one of the causes of the irregularity? In any case, will not a full statement be made of the legal grounds which have led to the quashing of these sentences?
I am much obliged to the right hon. Gentleman. That, I am sure, would be advantageous from every point of view. The quashing of a trial is a very serious matter. People ought to know why.
