May I, while fully accepting your guidance on procedure, Mr. Speaker, ask a question of fact arising out of the statement of the hon. Member for Oldham (Mr. Hale)? Is there any foundation whatever for the statement that a number of men have been six times brought up for execution over a period of years? Is it possible that that statement is true; and if it is not true, ought it not to be contradicted at the earliest moment?
Is this not an affront to every decent tradition of British administration?
With great respect, Mr. Speaker, the House has been placed in the possession of certain facts, and these facts are in principle agreed by the responsible Secretary of State for the Colonies, which take the form of a number of men being brought over a period of Many months—
I would never support such a thing. I do not believe in "cat and mousing" men up to the scaffold. Is this not an issue of fact and administration of the most urgent and grave character, and may I not ask the Secretary of State  for the Colonies whether he will now by his administrative authority, prevent any execution taking place until Parliament is properly seized of and informed on the matter?
With very great respect, Sir, apart from any question of the Royal Prerogative, does not the question of the execution of these men involve control by  this House over the actions of the responsible executive Minister? And have we no means or power to invite an explanation from the Minister? Must we go quietly away and learn that these men, after being four or five or six times brought to the threshold of death, have at last been executed; and is this not a matter of great urgency affecting the life and the honour and the decent administration of British government not only in this country?
Having served for two years as Home Secretary I have a feeling about these particular matters. Is it definitely established that every statutory interference with an execution—every administrative interference with an execution—involves the Royal Prerogative? Are not respites frequently given from week to week when cases have to be considered; and was there not a case only last week, or the week before, of a respite being given for a considerable time by administrative authority? What has that to do with the Royal Prerogative which is involved in the case where a final or formal pardon is concerned? Might I ask for your Ruling, Sir, as between the two quite definite classes of action by which the execution of human beings is stayed?
No, but has not the Minister the power to respite if he chooses without involving or invoking the Royal Prerogative?
With regard to the point now before you, Sir, namely of whether a respite, a postponement of execution, necessarily involves the Prerogative of the Crown, does not the statement volunteered by the Home Secretary show that there are cases where the Crown is not involved, and the Prerogative not invoked; and many cases where, as a matter of fact, in consequence of fresh evidence, or something like that, a respite is granted, administratively, not by the Crown at all but on Ministerial responsibility? If that were so, would your objection to a Motion for the Adjournment of the House being moved by the hon. Member for Oldham still stand—if it be true that there are cases, and that this is one of those cases where the Royal Prerogative is not invoked, but only the Ministerial responsibility?
With great respect, having got so far, let us make sure that these men are not executed without Parliament having an opportunity to consider the matter. Will the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Colonies make it perfectly clear that he will not approve the execution of these men, pending further consideration by this House?
Can we rest in uncertainty upon a matter of life and death? The right hon. Gentleman says, "I will make the strongest representations," and so forth. Everyone knows that his powers over Governors are absolute. His power over their actions may not be absolute, but he can suspend a Governor from his functions. If there is no other way of gaining the time, he should certainly consider that. I have been concerned in these matters over a great many years. Is not this an exhibition of impotence on the part of the head of a great Department that he does not wish men to be executed, yet he does not know whether they will be or not, and says he has no means of sending word from Britain to one of his own officials, an appointed Governor? Is not that a shocking thing? May I ask you, Mr. Speaker, most respectfully, whether you will not give fresh consideration to the request for leave to move the Adjournment submitted by the hon. Member for Oldham (Mr. Hale), this being clearly shown to be not a matter of the Prerogative, but a matter involving the administrative authority of a servant of this House?
On a point of Order. This is a matter of life and death. Will the Colonial Secretary not get off, and send his telegram now?
