Will the right hon. Gentleman lay before the House the reasons for the termination of the appointment of Viscount Wavell at this particular moment? Will he indicate to us, as it is essential to our comprehension of the position, what differences, divergences or disagreements have arisen between the Viceroy and His Majesty's Government?
Surely, we are entitled to be treated in a reasonable manner. Is it not a fact that if Lord Wavell's Viceroyalty had ended with the war, it, would have ended 18 months ago, and that had it ended after three years, it would have ended in June last? What, then, is the reason for this difference and disagreement which have lead to the removal and dismissal of a Viceroy in the full conduct of Government policy?
May I ask, in all humility, because the House is entitled to a reasonable explanation, why has this moment been chosen for this momentous new departure? There must be some reason. Is there any reason why it should be concealed from the House? Why should we not be told the truth?
What are the reasons which make this time appropriate for a change? There must be some reason. Surely, the right hon. Gentleman did not wake up one morning, and say, "Oh, let us get another Viceroy"? It must have some purpose or reason behind it, and we have a right to know what is that purpose or reason.
I did ask that some reason or explanation should be given for the extremely important executive action which the Government have taken, and which must have been animated by some motive accessible to human intelligence.
May I ask this question? Here we are dealing with a great policy which is unfolding before us. Are we not dealing with an officer who has been serving the Government in the most intimate relations? Now he is dismissed. May we not know what are the differences  which have arisen to lead to the dismissal of one Viceroy and the appointment of another? Surely that is a matter which, in the history of either House of Parliament, has never been denied fair discussion.
Is there no answer to be given to the question of whether there have been any differences or divergences between His Majesty's Government and the Viceroy?
rose—
On a point of Order. Am I not perfectly entitled, in view of the momentous statement that has been made by the Prime Minister, to ask him if he will answer the question put to him by the Leader of the Liberal Party, as to whether Lord Wavell will make, or is to be permitted to make, a public statement?
