The right hon. Gentleman has not done that at all, and I shall put to the House the words he has inserted which show how far from accuracy that muttered interjection lies. Little as we like the 1945 Act, or subscribe to its principles in time of peace, I doubt if it would have encountered any serious opposition if the Bill had merely been for the removal of doubt as to whether that Act was still in force now.
Hon. Gentlemen opposite cheer that, but applied in its full force that would be the complete abrogation of Parliament and of all our dearly-bought and long-cherished liberties and rights. It is not only Governments that have rights—ordinary British people have them too. No reason has been given us by the Lord President, in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, to justify the casting away, by us, undefended, of such rights as are still free from the operation of the 1945 Act. Who is to be the judge, I should like to know, of whether the conditions of Clause 1 (1, c), those sweeping words which excite the enthusiasm of hon. Members opposite, are in fact fulfilled by any legislation demanded by the Government? It is only Ministers who are to be the judge. The courts have ruled that the Minister who takes executive action has only to declare that he considers that action necessary under the Act, and that is the end of the matter. That is, at any rate, the practice which is growing up. There is no protection at all to be looked for in that quarter. Therefore, the only guarantee we would have that Clause 1 (1, c), would not be abused is in the character of Ministers and the confidence we place in them. Thus we are asked to give a blank cheque for totalitarian government, for that is what this is, at the absolute discretion of Ministers who, proceeding by Orders in Council when Parliament is not sitting, and may not be sitting for months, would be absolute masters. Is this really necessary to the life and recovery of the country? I should have thought that it would have spread so much uneasiness and alarm as to discourage and paralyse effort.
He has never modified or withdrawn the statement which I am about to read out, and I know nothing in his conduct which would lead one to suppose that he has. At any rate, he is  quite welcome to make a withdrawal whenever he chooses. This is what he said: 
I must return to the President of the Board of Trade: 
So I did. I have been so much interrupted. But I have got another one: 
The right hon and learned Gentleman went on to say: 
Hon. Members opposite seem to be very hilarious, but there is an air of apprehension behind their laughter, because they know that they will have to justify on every platform in the country not only the physical miseries which they have inflicted upon this country, but the gross invasions of our fundamental liberties. I ask, are these powers in Subsection (1, c), in their vague, all-embracing terms, the kind of powers which we would entrust to a man who holds these views about this House, and about society and the State in relation to ordinary men and women? Naturally, one shrinks from giving support to such immense powers when we have heard beforehand how one of the most able of all the Ministers intends to use them.
Perhaps the hon. and learned Gentleman will be successful in catching your eye, Mr. Speaker. He is not successful in catching mine. I am still mystified about the intentions and motives of the Government. The Prime Minister's speech on Wednesday is universally judged to be inadequate to the crisis and vague in its character. Are the Government trying to make up for lack of deeds by boastful words? That is a point which has occurred to me. It is the most innocent explanation of this Bill that I can find. Why should they come forward with all these demands for totalitarian powers when nothing that was said by the Prime Minister or by any of the Ministers who spoke yesterday in the Debate furnishes any substantial reason for their need? Is it because—and we must ask ourselves this—they wish to get Parliament separated and away on the holidays and then use these powers with irrevocable effect? Or is it, having no  effective plan or design, they wish to cover up their vacuity by the assumption of sweeping powers? Some light must be cast on this as the Debate proceeds. If the Government are sincerely concerned with the enduring validity of the 1945 legislation, and wish only to be reassured on that point, it is quite easy for them to accept the series of Amendments which we shall place on the Order Paper to that effect. If what they tell us is their purpose is true, it is quite easy for them greatly to diminish any criticism or opposition to this Measure.
My hon. Friend has said that he was not referring to the hon. Member for Central Portsmouth in any way. How then can it be complained that my hon. Friend was insulting him, when he was not even pointing at the hon. Member opposite?
His aim was not accurate.
I have never criticised the action of the Labour Party in that connection. I thought it was very wise and patriotic of them to do so, and we worked together for five eventful, tumultuous years. My criticism has been directed at the action of the present majority returned at the Election, which I say has put party before country.
We suggested that it should be put in the Expiring Laws (Continuance) Act, which would enable it to be judged every year.
We all agree with the right hon. Gentleman about 1913.
Look to your own sup porters; do not look at us.
Has the right hon. Gentleman only just found that out?
The right hon. Gentleman is a long way off the Bill.
The Government can do anything they like.
A great demand is being made. The right hon. Gentleman has said that if people are not prepared to place the whole of their resources at the disposal of the community, the Government will ensure that they should render the necessary help to the nation. What is the community? It is there—the party Government opposite.
I do not like interrupting the right hon. Gentleman, whose courtesy to the House we all recognise, and whose earnest approach to this topic is not resented in any way The point is that the Government are taking away from the legislative and Parliamentary instrument the duties which it ought to discharge, and taking to themselves, without precise or preconceived plan, vast powers which sweep away all the liberties which we have hitherto enjoyed.
The very words.
