What is the total naval aviation force?
Surely the hon. Gentleman knows the exact figures?
Is it a quarter of 145,000?
While on this point, can the hon. Gentleman say how many operational squadrons there are as a result of this supply of a quarter of 145,000 men?
Who wrote that?
Who served on the committee? Who appointed the committee?
I am afraid that that is a shaft too deadly for me to reply to.
No, I think not.
I would rather conclude my argument. The hon. Gentleman will no doubt have a great opportunity to deal with his point in Debate.
No, I have not changed my views at all. The whole point of my speech was that today I am rejoicing that the right hon. Gentleman the Minister of Defence has accepted the figure which I mentioned three year; ago.
We should have recovered from it.
It is not true.
During the five years of my administration at the Treasury, by very careful and judiciously selected economies a reduction of £10 million was effected on the whole three Services put together.
I do not want to get into a technical argument, but a great mistake may be made in increasing the size of destroyers year by year. One is  risking a great deal of life in a practically unarmoured vessel, because one is moving from the class which hunts the submarines into the class which it is worth while for the submarines to hunt. It is easy to see the desire to say each year they are better than the year before, but one is passing out of the effective sphere of destroyer utility.
What about the Admiralty and the 8,000 more?
Or to announce it?
I do not believe it at all. I am not challenging the honesty of the right hon. Gentleman, but I do not believe these ships could not be placed in basins or roadsteads where they could remain without the expenditure of £11 million upon them. I think that is where the right hon. Gentleman is sucked in.
The right hon. Gentleman really might get my argument. I never suggested they would be ready at the outbreak of war, but when other great ships are sunk, it is then that the older ones come into play with advantage. It may well be they would not come in until the second year of the war. [Interruption.] Why these cries of "Ooh, ooh"? Hon. Members should learn to follow reasonable arguments on these matters. Material reserves are not necessarily ready at the outbreak of war—it may be only a year after, or two years after, that they come in, but it may be vital then to have something when you have lost the others.
Which ships?
