Troops are being used in accordance with the demands of the Ministry of Food. Other Armed Forces will be brought in if necessary. The necessity is not very great at the present time, because, although there were certain perishable foodstuffs, the Armed Forces were there, and the men did the work yesterday.
It is obvious that one cannot, at a moment's notice, replace the whole number of men at the docks, but all preparations are made, if the stoppage should continue, for bringing in more men from the Services. At the present moment, those who are there are put in to meet the requirements of the Ministry of Food.
We are not waiting. There are some 7,000 men now at work, and I hope to see a further resumption.
These are the returns from the Dock Labour Board.
No, Sir. I have already said that it is perfectly open to raise that question of disciplinary action, but the particular cases have been dealt with under the machinery that has been set up. The full resources have been brought in, and the question has gone to appeal, not once but twice. It is quite impossible to suggest that it should be re-opened.
There are, of course, no negotiations with the unofficial strikers. This matter is being dealt with by the union, and every effort is being made to get the men back to work. I think they should be given every opportunity.
There is no question of not bringing in men to do this work. The right hon. Gentleman knows quite well that we cannot immediately bring in whole masses of people to do the work of the docks. We have brought them in to meet immediate necessity. Plans are already in hand and arrangements made for further men to be brought in if required and if the stoppage should not cease.
I think I made that statement yesterday.
The short reply is that there is no question of not meeting the men's representatives. The union representatives have been met by the Ministry of Labour.
It is the policy of this Government, and I think of this House, that we should deal with the union representatives and support their authority.
I have not had notice of that question.
I was not aware that I had been asked. As I understand it, the meat ration is secured for this week-end.
Certainly. I never suggested that the steps taken should be limited to the movement of perishable foods. That was the first matter that had to be dealt with. I entirely agree that it is quite obvious that we cannot have the whole of the life of this country held up.
