It does not matter how near one goes to the edge, so long as one has no intention of going over, but merely pushes the other one over it.
The decision is taken by the Home Secretary in individual cases.
Infanticide is a better word.
Not entirely, no, but the great majority. I do not want to rob them of any credit which may belong to them. An Amendment was put down for the abolition of capital punishment. The Cabinet had to decide how this Amendment should be treated, and they decided, as a result of a sort of bargain, that it should be left to a free vote of the House. This, no doubt, appeared a convenient method of disposing of the differences of opinion which prevailed among Members of the Cabinet and in the Socialist Party.
The Government were considering their own party in this matter. But it was not a proper way of dealing with a matter of this gravity, on which the Cabinet on any given occasion should have a united and collective view. We know from the Home Secretary's speech in the house that this, above all others, was in his opinion not the time to make such a change in the law, and he stated his reasons to the House in, the strongest terms. He even said that there might have been an increase in the number of murders but for the enforcement of the death penalty, and added: 
—suspending capital punishment was added to the Bill and the long-established custom of our country was suspended against the advice of the Government and especially of the Minister publicly and personally responsible. That in itself was a very grave matter.
With great respect, a natural and healthy emulation between  the two Chambers may be conducive to their ultimate efficiency and improvement.
I have read the Clause, and I do not think I have been inaccurate in any way.
If the hon. Gentleman will tell me what it is he wants me to withdraw I will repeat it twice over. In my view, this Clause is not an experimental one. [HON. MEMBERS: "It is."] It has neither thought nor theme—
I am comparing the original Clause which was put down by so many Members and put into the Bill with the one which we have before us now. I am certain—
The Attorney-General has much more experience of courts of law than he has of the House of Commons, and I will tell him for his own benefit that interruptions which have no purpose but to continue the argument are not a fair use of the right of interruption.
But experimental in relation to an entirely different set of facts. We all remember how Queen Elizabeth dealt with poetry and blank verse"—"Marry, this is something. This is rhyme! But this"—the blank verse"—"is neither rhyme nor reason." That is what we have before us now—a mere jumble of points which seem popular at the moment to deal with cases in which, to quote the Attorney-General, public opinion feels that the suspension of the death penalty involves risk—public opinion having been measured in less than a few weeks. It is a mere jumble of points which seem popular at the moment, and which have been suggested by the more recent batch of murders as recorded in the newspapers. It has been put together not with the object of making a better and more humane system of criminal justice but of getting round an awkward Cabinet or Parliamentary difficulty. The Attorney-General said it was a compromise. Confusion is not compromise. A bargain between politicians  in difficulties ought not to be the basis of our criminal law. This is an attempt, as the Attorney-General said, to steer a middle course, to steer a course of "no meaning" between the "No" of the abolitionists and the "Yes" of the mass of ordinary folk.
Well, it may come to that. It is in the weeks and days and hours before hanging that the ordeal to which criminals are subjected arises. In this case the men I am speaking of were made to go through this ordeal again and again, without being considered to have expiated their crime.
That may be what the right hon. and learned Gentleman has in his head, but it does not carry conviction. We all know that Law Officers in his position have to be trotted out to cover up the most difficult and unsatisfactory situations into which Governments get. I have often seen it done, but never have I seen it done with such an undue parading of his own particular opinion on a matter upon which a great profession could form its own judgment.
I take full responsibility for everything I say. The jury will have  to be instructed and will have to decide whether a killing was in the course of or in connection with the offences described in Subsection (1, a) of the Clause or whether it was for any of the specified purposes in Subsection (1, b), or whether it was in the case of poisoning by systematic administration under Subsection (1, c).
Well, the Government will have an opportunity of speaking. The Home Secretary can say what it is. I am told by people who have studied this and have great professional attainments that what I have just said is correct because the jury will in many cases have to be advised—
The right hon. and learned Gentleman may shake his head till he shakes it off, but it does not affect the argument. Intense difficulty will occur in the case of a murder alleged to have happened during a rape. I am advised that the judge would have to direct the jury first as to constructive malice under the law as it is at present—that is to say, the malice that is implied from death resulting from a felony involving violence—and secondly, express malice under the law introduced by the Amendment—that is to say, an intention to kill or maim by an act which might reasonably be expected to endanger life. If that is not correct, when the Home Secretary or any other person of authority winds up, no doubt we shall be told, but it is not much good the Government proclaiming facts which are not correct in regard to the existing interpretation of the law of the land.
The offence—
I really would not say anything more controversial than that the Home Secretary would have the power to answer these points and let us know  the view of the Government on them. If I am told that the defence of the ravisher in this case could be that he did not intend to use more force than was necessary to make the unfortunate woman submit to his approaches, is he then to escape the supreme penalty because there is no proved intention to kill or maim? All those points, I am assured, will have to be put to ordinary jurymen and jury-women who have never before been called upon to split such hairs.
Ordinary jurymen and jurywomen who have never been called upon to split such hairs will now have to do it for the first time with a human life at stake. This Clause will in consequence give rise to endless legal arguments both before the judge and in the Court of Criminal Appeal. The result will be to make it more likely that certain categories of murderers will be hanged while other categories, equally heinous, cannot be. Secondly, it must tend in the long run to hamper the Home Secretary or some other Home Secretary in the exercise of his unlimited discretion which is by far, the most elastic, sympathetic and comprehending process that can possibly be used. But it is the ordeal to which juries will be subjected on which the main weight of the practical case rests.
indicated dissent.
The responsibility rests entirely with the Government.
The responsibility for the course pursued in the House and the decision as to putting the Whips on or not, is the responsibility of the Government, surely. It is quite true we did not object at the time—
"Casual."
It is a hypothetical question. I am quite sure that in the present state of affairs it would have been much better to leave matters where they were, as the Government proposed.
If I were assured that abolishing the death penalty would bring all murders to an end—[HON. MEMBERS: "No."]—I would certainly be in favour of that course.
Certainly I should not consider the grounds which the hon. Member advances as sufficient justification for altering the long-established custom.
The hon. Member has occupied 10 minutes—
—in asking the same hypothetical question of me across the Floor of the House. I have made my speech, and a very long one. I have certainly not any intention of taking up the time of the House in dealing with this  hypothetical question. I should have thought that my position was very clear from what I have said, that it is a great mistake that the Government have made to disturb the practice which was going on when this Parliament came in.
And as the hon. Member is going to do tonight.
The hon. Member is going to vote for the gallows even though it is abhorrent to his conscience.
It is entirely in accordance with custom that Ministers should have access to the documents of the period for which they were responsible.
Nearly 40 years—there is a considerable time lag.
What is the date of the quotation?
