—but these advances are spread very unevenly over industry. In many firms, and indeed in some whole industries, little or no advance in productivity has been made: if all were as good as the best our problem of production would be in a fair way to solution. If we are to seize the great opportunities for export which devaluation has opened to us, and keep up the standard of supply in the home market, we must increase our production.
That will, of course, be dealt with in the Debate on Wednesday and Thursday, but it was very fully dealt with by my right hon. and learned Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
I think the right hon. Gentleman will get more information when he is able to study it a little more at leisure. I considered very carefully the question of whether one could issue a White Paper, but it is very difficult, because there is a very great range of economies coming into force at different times, and also past economies have to be brought in. Therefore, I came to the conclusion that one could not issue a White Paper without making it an enormously voluminous document. I think the matter will, of course, be opened out in Debate by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. I put into my statement as much detail as I could, and I think it is quite sufficient for a Debate.
That is so.
I think that my hon. Friend's point, like so many other points that are being made, are points which would be better made in Debate than by question and answer.
I really cannot, straight away.
We are discussing the whole question of defence with our friends.
I cannot say anything further on that point—no one could—than the Chancellor of the Exchequer said last week.
Oh, no. Other economies are being made. Economies are being made all the time. [HON. MEMBERS: "What are they?"]
I have already pointed out that a complete review is being made of the whole question of the Forces.
That is exactly what I did not say. I said that the subsidy would be withdrawn and the whole matter considered in February.
I did not say that specifically. I said that we were reviewing the whole question and that it will fall into its place in the general defence of the country.
I really do think it is. We have given this matter a good deal of consideration.
All those matters are really matters for debate.
The hon. Gentleman has missed the point. There was a vast mass of detail which it is difficult to bring into a White Paper.
No, Sir.
The hon. Gentleman knows well that there are laid before the House very detailed Estimates. He would not expect those all to be repeated. These figures will appear in the Estimates in due course.
It is intended to be a net reduction.
