May I be allowed to say that we all join with the Prime Minister in the expression of sympathy which he has made towards the relatives of those who were killed and. wounded, and also in the terms in which he has referred to the creditable behaviour of our officers and men in the difficult circumstances into which they were put?
Whoever was responsible managed to send that ship up the river almost exactly at zero hour.
Now that we have received this statement from the Government as to the facts, might we have an indication of what their reaction is upon them? We have suffered very serious injury and our prestige has been affected, except in regard to the valour of our men, and is this to be the end? What course do His Majesty's Government intend to pursue? I am not asking for a statement on this today, but it is obvious that a matter like this cannot be allowed to go away in default with a mere statement of the facts from the Prime Minister and with a passive acceptance of them by the House of Commons. Something more than that must be done. I am not pressing for an immediate statement, especially as one cannot say beforehand what it is necessary and right to do, but I should like to have an assurance from the Government that they will face this matter in a robust spirit and will make sure that the British flag is respected and that British lives are not flung away without Parliament pursuing the matter with vigour and attention.
And the aircraft carriers?
With regard to the question of a Debate on these matters, I feel that there are several matters on which the Government will wish to make a statement later. I have indicated them and, therefore, I do not wish to press for an adjournment of the House today, but we shall accept the offer of the Prime Minister to discuss, through the usual channels, a Debate upon this issue in the near future. Because it has many aspects, I should like to make it absolutely clear that whatever criticism we may male of what I may call the unfortunate handling of a difficult situation, which has led our people to lose their lives, that in no wise detracts from our resentment at the atrocious outrage of which we have been the victims, or from our determination to press the Government to take effective steps to make sure that we are treated with respect in the future.
Are not the First Lord of the Admiralty and the Minister of Defence in close touch with the men on the spot? Ought they not to be following this situation and able to make—
What did the hon. Member say? Are those right hon. Gentlemen keeping in close touch, instead of leaving it to the men on the spot, and so being confronted with an unfortunate episode of this character?
Would it not have been right for the Admiralty authorities and the Government, when' they had information that this ship was to proceed up the river, and when the Communists had been entrenched along, or in strong occupation of, the north bank for weeks before, and when an armistice was expiring in a few hours—would it not have been right for them to have been in the closest touch with their officers on the spot, instead of throwing the whole burden on them, and expecting that they could get off behind them for all their muddle?
Yes.
