I am sure that we have all listened with great interest to the statement which the Prime Minister has made. May I ask him if this statement has been collated with or is to be read in accordance with the other statement issued this morning by the National Eexcutive Committee of the Labour Party?
It is evident, I am sure, that we should have a discussion on this matter at an early date. It is very complicated, and we have two versions presented to us of the policy of the party opposite. There are also many difficult aspects of this question. May I ask the right hon. Gentleman if we can have a Debate on this matter next week? I do not think it should be left too long in view of the uncertainties there are. May I also ask whether the Prime Minister will publish a White Paper—I think he intends to do so—containing the text—
I am very much obliged. I presume that the Prime Minister will give us an opportunity of discussing this matter next week. I am sure that everyone will welcome the opportunity. Meanwhile, may I assure the right hon. Gentleman of the sympathy we all feel with him in his position as the only Socialist Prime Minister, outside the Iron Curtain and Scandinavia, in the whole of Europe, the whole British Commonwealth of Nations or the whole of the English-speaking world.
I would assure the right hon. Gentleman that I was only expressing my sympathy with his loneliness.
The question of having any Debate, and so on, is suitable to the usual channels, but Parliament has its rights in regard to whether large questions should be debated on particular occasions; and is not this exactly a topic on which the House of Commons should express an opinion? May not we have an assurance—apart from any discussions through the usual channels—that we will be given an opportunity next week when we can discuss this matter?
The right hon. Gentleman is not the judge.
Does not the proposal suggested by the right hon. Gentleman give him or the Government absolutely indefinite power of delaying a Debate on this matter? They have only to say, "We do not know all the facts and so we will put off the Debate." But the House is the judge and not the Government of whether a Debate should take place upon a grave public matter, and I ask expressly and explicitly that this matter should be discussed next week. As to the right hon. Gentleman saying, "Take one of your Supply Days," that really is not worthy of a Government which, although it has only a majority of four or five, still presumes to rule over these vast spheres.
Is it not, instead of a discussion of these detailed proposals, rather an account which we require of the negotiations which have taken place  and of the Government's action and policy and the general principles by which they will be guided in any discussion of detail?
Surely it may be a long time before the French Government, having had only preliminary pourparlers with other countries, are in a position to state their detailed proposals? Are not the detailed proposals of the French Government to be put forward as a basis of discussion among a large number of Powers to be assembled round a table? How long is all that going to take? Are we really to be denied a Debate in Government time upon an issue of this importance?
Would not it be very easy and appropriate for the right hon. Gentleman to expound at greater length in a Debate what he has just been saying in answer to the last question? The Government have to declare and explain their conduct in relation to these matters as far as they are known to us. To say  that we shall have to wait until the cut-and-dried detailed proposals agreed upon by all the different countries can be placed before us is, I think, very abusive treatment.
I was not prejudging the issue, because it requires very careful consideration in many of its different aspects, but I do ask that we should now have a Debate next week promised to us. It would be a proper thing in a matter of this extreme importance for the Government to have the Debate in their time.
