Could the right hon. Gentleman let us know the character of the invitation or summons that was sent to Seretse Khama? Was there in it any intimation that he might be forbidden to return to the Protectorate for five years? I am glad to hear that, apparently, he is free to return. Is that so? Can he return at any moment? Otherwise, quite apart from the large issues which are raised in this matter, and which I would not attempt to discuss at this time, the question I would ask is whether this chief is being treated quite fairly as between man and man. That is a point which causes some anxiety. To put the point precisely, was he aware beforehand that this decision might be given against him and that he would be the subject of this special regulation and restriction?
Where would the exclusion order be enforced? Would it be  enforced at the frontiers of the Protectorate or after he had re-entered the Protectorate?
Have we not, as it were, enticed this man to come over here to have talks on the whole question? Now that he wishes to go back is it not a fact that if he puts one foot across the border of his native land he is to be stopped by force?
Surely he would not be in the same position until he gets back into his territory—in the exact situation he was in when he agreed to come to England.
Will the Minister give full consideration to the point of honour which is involved? I am not trying to deal with the large questions at all. Will he consider whether it would not be better to allow this man to return to exactly the same position that he was in at the point when the correspondence took place, whatever are the Government's views, rights and authority in the matter?
May I return to the very simple point in which some of us on this side are interested, namely, the question of whether he was enticed over  here under false pretences or not, and whether he will be restored to his previous position? Where is Mrs. Khama at present, and where was she at the time when Seretse Khama took leave of her? Will the right hon. Gentleman not consider that Seretse has a right to go back to that very place and meet her at that very place before the Government take any further action in the matter?
It is a very disreputable transaction.
The right hon. Gentleman told us just now that it was untrue to suggest that any of these questions raised by my hon. Friends about mixed marriages and so on, and the opinion of white people in South Africa on that subject, had been discussed at all in this matter. Can he give the assurance that none of that was mentioned in the Report?
