indicated assent.
I can assure the right hon. Gentleman that I foresaw this anomaly and considered that it might well be taken in its stride.
The spirit of envy is not one to be cultivated.
This is not a question of economic advisory functions. It is a question of statistical advisory functions. At the beginning of the late war each of the Departments, especially the Service and Supply Departments, had their own statistical data. Great differences arose in their methods of calculation. Hours were wasted in the Committees because they were arguing at cross-purposes, the same words and figures not meaning the same things. So then we established—I was largely guided by Lord Cherwell in this—a uniform system which exists today, by which the basic statistics are presented by each Department upon a common foundation. That is of enormous value and simplification.
It is not economic; it is statistical.
Lord Cherwell is a member of the Cabinet. I had great difficulty in pursuading him to become  one. He was quite willing to serve as an independent assistant and aid. I value very much his advice. He has the same rights as any member of the Cabinet to express his views on all sorts of questions, including economic questions. That is how he handles the machine of which he is head. He presents the statistics to me and in no way overrides the general statistical department but merely enables me to do the work I am expected to do.
What a presumptuous remark.
Why then did the late Government in 1945 continue in time of peace the system of Minister of Defence, under which the heads of three Service Departments were all represented in the Cabinet by a Defence Minister and were in exactly the same position as are those Ministers about whom the right hon. Gentleman is talking now?
Are we to be asked to lay down strict rules to be made  public for the method in which we, as a Government, conduct our internal business and what Ministers are to be asked and when? Such impudent demands have never been made before.
The right hon. Gentleman is an expert.
This is very insulting.
On a point of order. Is it not very insulting to compare one of His Majesty's Ministers with Professor Pontecorvo?
