May I draw the attention of the Minister to the King's Regulations, paragraph 17 (2): 
I will continue. 
I am in possession of the House as long as you permit it, Mr. Speaker.
We ought to be able to discuss these matters. In view of this perfectly clear paragraph in the King's Regulations, may I ask the right hon. Gentleman whether the Admiralty gave permission to the present First Sea Lord to make the speech attributed to him?
Is this for the Navy or the Army?
I have read a passage which entirely contradicts that and which was taken from the King's Regulations for the Naval Services. Surely that is relevant——
Surely that is relevant in this matter and what I ask is this——
What I ask, arising from that, is this: Was permission given by the First Lord of the Admiralty or other Ministerial authority to the First Sea Lord to enter upon this subject in the manner which has been attributed to him?
But is it not very desirable to keep the high naval and military professional authorities, actively serving, out of matters of controversy in Parliament?
Now, with very great respect, I put this question to the Prime Minister. Does he approve of the Minister of Defence deliberately justifying what has been a breach of King's Regulations?
Does the right hon. Gentleman repudiate—[Interruption.] It does not worry me at all to be interrupted: I like it. Does the right hon. Gentleman repudiate the Regulation which I read from the Navy Regulations, by which officers have to be guided from day to day? Does he, as head of the defence Services?
What?
But——
On a point of order——
Yes, Sir; it seems to be the only way one is allowed to speak in this House. [Interruption.]
On a point of order. Is it not a very insulting charge for the Minister of Defence to make, that I should have adopted—[Interruption.] Hon. Gentlemen opposite are afraid to hear the case put—a totally different view of King's Regulations, if the First Sea Lord's opinions had been of a very different  nature from those which have been expressed? Is it not very much better that all parties should join together to keep the professional heads of the Services out of political matters?
Will the right hon. Gentleman give us an assurance that he will endeavour, as Minister of Defence, to keep the professional heads of the Services as far as possible outside—in accordance with the Regulations—matters of high and controversial public policy which have to be debated in the House of Commons?
