We must not forget, moreover, that no one has more interest in being right in this particular matter than the people of the United States, who have the greatest need to take all precautions, since the Marshall Islands are much nearer to them than to us, or indeed to most other nations. My own impression is that this biological aspect tends to be greatly exaggerated.
I have never seen much which the hon. Member was able to rise above. I do not really see why I should be blamed. When, after the Election in 1945, I quitted the office of Prime Minister which I had held during the war, our position was very different. I feel that it will be in the national interest, and can do nothing but good on both sides of the Atlantic, if I now make public for the first time the agreement which I made in 1943 with President Roosevelt, which was signed by both of us at Quebec. President Eisenhower has informed me that he is content that I should do so. The House will find this document in the Vote Office when I sit down. I thought it right to lay the facsimile before the House, but here are the salient facts. I wrote them out myself those many years ago. 
I have to say, about the right hon. Gentleman to whom.! alluded, that I hope he will be specially helpful now, in consequence of what happened. I do not say that there were not many reasons and facts operative at the end of the war which were different from those during its course, but considering that the abandonment of our claim to be consulted and informed as an equal was the act of the Socialist Administration—
They abandoned the agreement, or took action which enabled the agreement to be destroyed. [Interruption] Hon. and right hon. Gentlemen opposite must not show so  much uneasiness in the matter. I feel they have no ground for reproaching their successors with the consequences. [HON. MEMBERS: "Withdraw."] I have nothing to withdraw.
I am coming to that aspect a little later, but I will transpose what I have to say to meet the wish of the House. I return to the Quebec Agreement as a whole—[HON. MEMBERS: "No."]. Why do not hon. Gentlemen opposite listen? Why do they say "No," especially when they do not know what I am coming to? When I visited the United States two years ago, I showed this document that will soon be in the Vote Office to Senator MacMahon, whom I had known for some time, and who was a man of the highest honour and outstanding patriotism to his own country. [An HON. MEMBER: "So is McCarthy."] He said at once, "If we had seen this agreement there would have been no MacMahon Act."
I did not intend —[HON. MEMBERS: "What? Did not intend what?"] I did not intend—[Interruption.] I have no doubt whatever that before the MacMahon Act was passed he ought to have confronted the people of the United States with the declaration. That is what I believe will be the view of history.
I did. I made reference to it in a former Parliament. I hesitated to make a public disclosure as a private person, but I did communicate with Mr. Truman on the subject, and he strongly appealed to me not to do so—[HON. MEMBERS: "Oh."]—but I frequently urged the right hon. Gentleman to make this agreement public. This matter can be looked into and debated at length, but I am quite certain that if the agreement which I made had been made public, it is very unlikely we should have had facilities withdrawn from us.
I am of opinion that the agreement should have been circulated in confidential circles in the first instance to the American Government. [HON. MEMBERS: "Why?"] The war was over, and there was no reason at all why this solemn agreement, signed by President Roosevelt and me, should not have been brought into proper consideration—
—by the American Government.
I think it would have been an obvious precaution to confront them with that agreement. [HON. MEMBERS: "Resign."] Anyhow, they were not confronted with it—
I do not see what all this anger is due to if it is not through a feeling of considerable regret that other action was not taken at the time.
The right hon. Gentleman said that I referred to the quid pro quo which was given in the new agreement—namely, giving up the right to commercial and industrial production. It can, of course, be said that in the fourth article of my agreement with President Roosevelt I abandoned all rights to the control of industrial and  commercial nuclear power and left them entirely to the President of the United States. He was to act in accordance with what he considered was fair and just and in accordance with the welfare of the world; whereas the Socialist Government regained these rights in return for sacrifices in the share of the control of the military aspects.
As for the commercial, that has now, after 11 years, been offered to the whole world by President Eisenhower's proposals made in the address to U.N.O. on 8th December last.
In these proposals not only are knowledge and rights in the commercial sphere freely extended, but even what is thought to be an increasing proportion of the nuclear stockpile is to be transferred from war destruction to peace and plenty,
I therefore still feel that I was right in the choice which I made on the commercial aspect.
—in Congress or throughout America. Nothing could be more disastrous to peace than a grave dispute—[An HON. MEMBER: "You have started it."]—between Britain and the United States. I have not started it at all. I have obtained sanction to make public the solemn agreement made between President Roosevelt and myself.
If there is nothing in the point, why is there so much excitement? Now let me say only—
Yesterday, the hon. Member for Coventry, East (Mr. Crossman) wrote in one of the Sunday papers: 
If this line of thought were adopted, it seems almost certain that "the agonising re-appraisal" of which Mr. Dulles spoke in another connection would follow. If the United States withdrew from Europe altogether— she might withdraw from Europe altogether—and with her three-quarter circle of hydrogen bases already spread around the globe, she would face Russia alone, as she certainly could.
